Okay, uh, it seems like homework one has been released. I think it's due, um, this Thursday or something. Um, I'll be releasing the second homework soon, and announcements on Canvas. Um, so I think this is approximately where I really left off, the mathematics behind the Harris corner detector. And I said that we do not actually need to compute every single, um, what is it, the energy matrix. What we can do is just compute this M matrix which consists of these properties, right, the horizontal gradients, vertical gradients, and the combination. And that allows us to not directly compute the energy matrix. What we can just do is analyze this, analyze this matrix M. And just by looking at this, we can tell the horizontal gradients, if these two numbers are large for this M matrix, okay, overall, then it probably means there is a some sort of a, um, horizontal gradient, many horizontal gradients and vertical gradients. Implicating that, um, this is some sort of a corner. And if all the values are small, then no edges, no nothing. And if only one of them is large, then probably an edge. Okay? And the question was, um, what if it's rotated? What if these properties not as, uh, apparent as it is? But it could be that the corner looks like this, then there's some horizontal gradients or some vertical, and there's also some combination, right? So what I briefly talked about, and which again I'll just briefly go through and not pay too much attention to is is the, um, the eigenvalue decomposition and how this appears in this, um, how this, you can use this eigenvalue for the Harris corner detector. This is where the beauty of this method comes. So we want to know the shape of the I basically talked about this last time, um, as well. So I'm gonna go through this kind of go through this pretty quickly. Um, and the reason why I'm kind of going through this pretty deep is, um, if you just take it as it is, then it's a very simple method. If you don't know how this actually works, if you don't actually care about all this math, then what you just have is this. Um, I can just talk about this first. Um, this is called determinant. Determinant has a, uh, it's a function that you can use. It's actually a, um, I believe it's this number times this number minus this number times this number. Okay? If it's a two by two matrix. It's just a simple pre-determined function that you can use. Okay? And this M, okay, but is has a special form. We do not actually even have to compute this. All you have to do, this is actually equivalent to, so if this is, let's say A, B, C, and D, I think, let me want to check, I may be wrong, uh, C times B. Okay? I don't actually have to do this. I actually, what I have to do is lambda one times lambda two. This value is equivalent to determinant of M. Okay? This is equivalent to this, which is by definition the determinant value. Okay? Trace is the other has the other property, just the sum of the diagonal values. Okay? That that means trace of M is just A plus D. Okay? That value is identical to this, lambda one plus lambda two. Okay? Just a special property of this sort of matrix. Okay? So, we compute and again, we don't even need to compute this lambda ones and lambda twos. You can just directly use these functions. Determinant of M, trace of M. Okay? So you have two values, determinant of M, trace of M. And what you have to do is without knowing exactly what this M thing is, okay, this M is just, um, as we have accumulated like this, which all we need to do is just construct that and don't have to care about all this math behind it and just perform this formula. Okay? Um, so what this tells us is the following. So determinant of M, okay, so what do we have? We're trying to just identify these lambda one, lambda two and their ratios, right? So what happens is if both of these numbers are large, then this multiplication value is high. This summation is value is high, but not as high as this. Right? So, in other words, if this is ten, if these two are let's say ten and seven, okay? Then the product is seventy, and the sum is seventeen. Okay? And see what we're trying to do here. We're trying to subtract this number by the bottom number. Okay? So what happens is this overall value, so we have this squared, okay? And we have this K. So K is what we call the empirical constant. It's just some sort of a weight, some sort of a scalar value that we put in front to kind of balance them out. Something that we typically just fix as one of these values. So what happens is if these two numbers are both large, then this determinant value is going to be much, much larger than the trace value. This is also gonna go up, okay? That means this overall R, which is the corner response, it's like a score, is going to be high. Right? Because this is high, this is high, but not as high. If these there's some sort of imbalance, okay, let's say instead of ten and seven, maybe we have ten and, um, one. Okay? Or maybe two. Then we have twenty for this, and we have twelve for this. Okay? Then what you can tell is this is not as high, this is also not as high, but the difference, okay? What it means is that if these two numbers are not both large, so if only one of them is large, then this R score is gonna go down. Implicating that it's either an edge or maybe nothing. Maybe just a flat area. Okay? So, the reason why we're looking at this ratio, this is something that people had just kind of constructed based on, um, this property of this M matrix. Okay? And they wanted to kind of understand the shape of that. Like before, now all these things that I tried to show you is a way to analyze the shape of this energy matrix. And I told you that I do not, we do not actually have to construct this. We do not have to approximate this. Okay? In other words, we do not have to actually compute every single one of them. We just need to analyze the shape. And what determines that shape? Lambda one and lambda two. How do we actually have a systematic way of, um, understanding these values, the magnitude of those those values? This this formula. Okay? So all we care about is seeing if it has this elongated elliptical shape or really large circle where the lambdas, both of those lambdas are large. That's what indicates that it's a corner. Okay? How do you identify that? Perform this formula where if both lambda ones and lambda twos are high, implicating that it's a corner, then what happens is this value is gonna be super high, this value is gonna be relatively smaller. The overall value is gonna be high. If only one of them is high, okay, let's say this is much larger than lambda two, okay? This value is going to be somewhat high and this is going to be also going to be somewhat high, but the the relatively speaking, okay, it's not going to be outweighing this other part. Therefore, the R score is gonna go down and down, implying that it's not a corner. It's either an edge or a, um, flat region. Okay? If both, uh, so yeah, this is exactly what it says at the bottom. Okay? And if it's a flat region, that means lambda ones and lambda twos, their ratios are okay, but they're both of them are going to be let's say very small. Then this the both of these numbers are going to be small, so R score no matter what you do is gonna be gonna be small. Okay? So, um, we started from this really weird, uh, not weird but, uh, pretty intuitive way of identifying corner by looking at through the window. And a way to keep track of that is this energy matrix. And by analyzing the the shape of this energy matrix, we can also intuitively understand the overall, the nearby, I guess the shape of that potential corner. Okay? And I said we can there's a way to approximate that, okay, by constructing this M matrix. But we can approximate it, but we're not actually going to draw it or anything. We're not actually going to really approximate it. We're just going to just compute this M and do the decomposition and just deal with these numbers and nothing else. Okay? And I'm gonna skip this part. So, I think this text is exactly the same as what you're what's shown here. So just a repetition. Um, but I did not go through the example. Uh, I think I have uploaded a simple, um, code that you can probably replicate with some, um, fill-ins. So this is a, uh, small image. Okay? And I tried to pick this point as a potential corner. And this is the X direction gradient and this is the Y direction gradient. So this would be I H and this would be I, um, V I guess. Okay? Based on that, I can make this energy matrix. It's a real energy matrix, okay? Actual E. This is what I can use by using that M matrix. This is what it looks like if you see it's a heat map. So blue regions are low values and brighter regions are have high values. So it's just looking at this from a matrix view. Also the same thing. You see that they have similar shapes. This kind of approximates this shape. Okay? And if you look at the contour of that, it becomes much more apparent. Oh, definitely a valley. This is an ellipse. Okay? And I have also, you can also see the corresponding lambda ones eigenvalues, 6.269 and 0.482. So it has this sort of a shape. This direction, okay, this length is high, uh, large, long, so lambda one is high, but the other complementary direction, orthogonal direction is small, therefore lambda two is gonna be small. Okay? I don't have to look at this. All I have to do is once you have computed that, okay? So this these are properties that we want to pay attention to. Um, one thing that I do want to point out is that this is this is wrong because, um, the eigenvalue decompositions, the way that it constructs guarantees that lambda ones has to be greater than or equal to, um, lambda two. It just it has a sorting property. So what I mean by that is this value is always gonna be larger than this one. If we have a larger matrix, many, many lambdas, this is larger than this one, this is larger than that one, and so on. It's just the way that this decomposition works. Okay? So you can always guarantee that the first one is going to be the largest one. Therefore, this cannot actually happen because this one will never be larger than this one. Okay? Um, but the point is that if there is a some sort of imbalance, then it's an edge. Okay? Um, if there is a some sort of a, um, so this is not true. Some sort of, uh, both of them are large, then this happens. Okay? And, um, whole determinant process and this, uh, which is on this page starts making sense. Okay? So huge shortcut to essentially what we want to do, analyzing the nearby nearby pix, uh, pixels and shapes. Okay? So that's really, um, the whole details, but the actual implementation is extremely simple as you can tell. You just have to pre-compute these. Okay? You don't have to compute this every time. You can just pre-compute. You can just make have an I, have the I H, have the I V, and then just look at the windows of those corresponding gradient images and start computing these. Right? So this empirical constant is, um, I guess depending on what value you use, you may be more conservative about the cornerness or you may be more liberal about the cornerness. Okay? So, there is another extremely important concept, um, that uh, it's the first time you would see be, uh, you'll be seeing this word non-max suppression. Or we also call this non-maximal suppression, non-maximum suppression, or NMS. NMS. Um, you'll see this in other courses and other, um, vision tasks as well. Okay? It's a very broad term. Uh, it means whatever that is not maximum, we're going to suppress it. Why do we do this? Okay? We're talking about computing these scores, R scores, for every single pixel. And as you can tell, the images, they're not as sharp, okay? There may be that there could be that, um, if you have a very, you know, somewhat sharp, but if you actually look closer into the image, these all the pixels may have very, very high R values, okay? That means you have very low R values, R scores, but there are many like ten, twenty R pix, um, pixels with high R scores right next to each other. But do we want to actually, um, start looking every single one of them? No. We just need to pick one that is the best within a certain region. Okay? In other words, we just want to let the maximal one survive and let the non-maximal ones be suppressed. This process, uh, is not just, uh, let me explain this first, okay? So, take the points of the non, uh, points of locally maximum R as the detected feature points. So you'll be looking either left, right, top, bottom neighbors and then let this one survive if that's the best one, largest one. Okay? So in this case, you look at 9, 8, 9, 12, 14. Myself is the largest one, so this survives. Okay? If you move to the next one, let's say, so this 9, um, so there's different ways of looking at it. You can either let this survive or you can kind of, um, set them to be let's say much smaller numbers. Typically, you have another matrix and then you just go through this window, okay? So you have an original image, new non-maximal suppression image. Just go through the window and then only copy over the one that is the largest one. So 15 is going to be copied over. If you move to the next one, so I'll be looking at whatever these values. This 9 is not the largest one, right? So I'm not gonna be copying over. So what happens is you're not going to be having two corners that are right next to each other. There's at least going to be one pixel between them if you have this three by three matrix. Okay? Now, um, in practice what you can also do is look at the diagonal neighbors as well. So in this case, 15 is not the largest one. 19 is. That means if we would do this eight neighbor, um, Harris non-maximum suppression, then this 15 is not going to survive. It's going to be passed. Okay? It's going to get passed. And when it reaches maybe 19, and if there are no other R scores that are larger than 19, then that one is going to be survived. Okay? So if you have a larger window, then you're going to be, I guess it's going to be more sparse. Okay? So, the word the dense and sparse are opposite words, okay? Dense means they're really, really close, um, many, many pixels right next to each other. Sparse means they're really far apart. You occasionally have maximal ones. Dense means they're really close to each other. Okay? So they're, um, opposite terminologies. We're trying to be make we're trying to make this more sparse essentially. So I think, oh, this is a good example. So this is the original image. Okay? This is after the non-maximal suppression. Okay? You're nicely picking the representative ones of the corners. But if you actually look at the original R score map, then look take a look at this area. It's not just a single pixel. There could be twenty to thirty pixels for example that all have R high R scores, but I'm only going to pick the best one. Okay? Things are not, um, I don't want to have repetitive ones, okay? So, after non-maximum suppression, only the ones that are representative within a certain window neighborhood are going to be left out. Um, and that's why you see these sparsely chosen corners. If you just don't do the non-maximum suppression, then you'll be seeing let's say where would this be? Where where would this be? Probably here. You'll be seeing many blue dots because you did not actually filter them out. Okay? So, this idea of non-maximum suppression is when you have repetitive, um, I guess repetitive and, um, unnecessarily many or dense features or points that are nearby, you want to filter them out. Only pick the representative ones. And this process is not unique to Harris detector. It appears in other techniques where you have let's say images and you pick some points. You maybe you can, well we're gonna eventually um, eventually talk about something like let's say bounding boxes, which means there's a person, I'm gonna put a box around it, okay? But again, there could be many boxes like this one, this one. They're all okay, okay? Um, they're technically not really wrong, but I want to pick the best one within this region. Okay? I just need to pick the best one. This is where the non-maximal suppression could also come into play. Okay? Because we're talking about pixel level I guess tasks. That means things are going to be off by pixels here and there. This could be the best one, maybe the one pixel above could be the best one. We need to make choices. Okay? And this happens a lot in vision tasks because we're dealing with very, very dense, densely crowded, you know, pixels. We make predictions in this pixel space and we just need to probably pick the most representative one. Therefore, the terminology NMS is going to appear pretty occasionally. Okay? And whenever you see this, it's not necessarily just this task, but just picking the ones that are the best within some densely chosen predictions. Okay? Very broad terminology. Um, so this is what the actual R score map would look like. So if you were to do this for every single pixel, this is what it's going to look like, but you need to pick the best one using the, um, NMS and this is the the result. So more more examples. So these are, uh, you see it's kind of hard to see but you're going to be seeing these red, oh yellow X's and that's where the the best ones are chosen. So, um, one thing that I have not talked about is so what do we do how do we pick the best one? There's typically what we call a threshold. Okay? So these are all R values, right? But how do you actually pick the ones that is, um, how do you actually decide the boundary, the cutoff? Okay? The the R the pixels with R scores larger than some what we call the threshold, okay, threshold, wow, are going to be chosen first and then maybe NMS comes after. So we need to pick them. We need to say these are just not corners, but only the ones with sufficiently large R scores are corners. And typically that's when the threshold comes and this is up to you. Typically this value is up to you, uh, meaning it's empirically chosen. You're the one who decide to actually, um, so if you have very low threshold, that means even if it has a small R score, even if it's even if the, um, the pixel remotely looks like a corner, you're gonna just declare that as a corner. But if you're super strict and conservative about your decision, I'm only going to let the pixels with very, very high R scores, meaning things that are definitely corners, I'm only going to choose them and kill the rest of them. Okay? This threshold, so depending on if you have a high threshold, you're more conservative. You're only going to pick the most certain ones. If you have a low threshold, that means you're going to let many of them go and you're just trying to look for as many corners as possible. Okay? And this value, which value to choose, it's up to you. Okay? You'll be the one trying it because in some images, you're going to be having much, I guess, um, maybe depending on the application as well. If you're conservative about picking, um, bad ones, then you may want to use a large threshold to ensure that the corner that you have chosen is absolutely a corner and with no risk. So, yeah, you can see that these are all the all the NMS has been done. That's why you see sparsely chosen corners like this. Okay. Um, let's start talking about the properties of this, um, idea of corner, okay, or features just in general. So, there's a notion of invariance and covariance. You probably see the word, have seen this word covariance or covariate, covariance matrix, maybe have seen this kind of similar, pretty much similar. Um, invariance though, it's much more, um, commonly used term in the AI. So what does it mean by invariant and then covariant? Um, so in means I guess not, co means I guess together, like cooperative and stuff. So does change in input change, so let me use many repetitive words. So if there's a change in the input, does that change the output? That's the question. So input changes. So you have a function f of x. If this change turns into A of x, what happens to the output? Is it going to be, so let's say this is y. Is it going to be A times y or is it going to be something totally unpredictable? Okay? So, if the input is transformed by a certain transformation, okay? So if the input there is a little change in the input. A function is invariant if the outcome does not vary with respect to the transformed output. Okay? I'm not talking about zero change. It just means like, um, pretty much no change or irrelevant change. Okay? So example, adding a constant intensity value to the entire image does not change the gradient, right? So if I have an image, if I add let's say ten to every single pixel value in the image, is that actually going to be changing the I X and I Y? No, right? These are all these operations are relative. If everything's increased by one, this doesn't change. So, you can think this, uh, think this as A f uh, f of x plus C, some constant, is actually exactly equivalent to almost f of x. Okay? Where f would be some sort of a, um, filter operation. So in this case, the filtering is invariant to the constant intensity value change. So some transform, it's not about the function, it's about the type of transformation. Some transformation. So if you have a function, it's going to be invariant to some transformation. It may not be invariant to other transformations. It depends on how you design it or how what the function is. So, a function is covariant if the outcome varies with respect to the transformed output. It has some sort of relationship. If input changes some way, output is also changed in some predictable way. So multiplying a constant intensity value to the entire image. So instead of adding, I'm going to be multiplying this by let's say two. That will actually change the gradient value, every single one of them, right? It's gonna get larger. Okay? So there is some sort of a change that happens to the output which has to do with the input change. They're not just random changes, expected changes. Okay? They they change together. If something goes large, if the input changes it becomes larger, maybe the output becomes larger as well. Okay? Those sort of changes are what we call the covariant functions. Okay? We don't look we don't have the covariance, we don't look at covariance a lot. We typically try to look for invariance. Okay? So, if f is invariant under linear transformations, linear transformation is multiplication and addition only, then even if you multiply x by A and then add B, the output is going to be the same as just the x. If it's covariant, then it's going to be changed, uh, some sort of change along with the change that happened to the input. Maybe not exactly this, but something related to this. Okay? So, simply put, we have input change does not make output change, then it's invariant. This is typically what we want more. Okay? The output changes, uh, input changes and output changes, it's not invariant. So there's a little bit of a thing. So input change implies output change, but it first it's not invariant. But that does not necessarily mean that it is covariant because if the change is not expected, has no relationship to the input change, it just changes randomly, it is not invariant, but also not covariant. You need to change in some sort with some relationship. If there's no relationship between these two changes, then it is not covariant and it is not invariant, uh, it is and so it's just not invariant, neither. Okay? So is it covariant or not covariant? Output changes relationship, so exactly what I mentioned. Okay? It's not just neither this either this or this. It could be neither. Okay? The reason why we talk about this is all these features need to be robust. Okay? The corners have to be detected under various let's say, um, uh, intensity changes. So what happens if the affine intensity change happen? In other words, the image has been intensity have uh, values have been maybe multiplied and added. Okay, so if the, uh, if this is what happened, only derivatives are used, invariant to the intensity shift. So this does not affect the the derivatives, okay, the gradients. Um, but the scaling though will actually change things. So on the left is let's say it's like a 1D image for example. So you see all these pixel values having different R scores. And this is our threshold, the fixed threshold, okay? If the image scaling has not been happened, then these three are going to be chosen as the corners. But if the intensity scaling happened, then everything is going to be stretched out upwards, right? If we multiply by some value larger than one, then it's all the values are gonna get increased accordingly. Larger values are gonna get even larger. Okay? Then what happens is this one which used to be, um, not chosen as a corner was chosen as a corner. So the output actually has changed. This corner detector is not invariant to intensity scaling. The output actually has been changed. It is invariant to the intensity shift. Shift meaning everything goes up and down together. Okay? Um, so, translation. Um, this is a little bit awkward. Um, so the question is would the R score of the window change? So if you have one image has a corner here. If the other image has the corner just shifted somewhere somewhere else. Does that mean we're going to be detecting corner here but not here? No. Right? We're doing window-wise operations. So even if things have been shifted, if we if the, um, if we reach this spot, this will still be considered as a corner. So image translation, it is invariant to, um, you know, translation. So derivatives and window functions are shift invariant. The corner location is covariant with respect to translation. So location, so it's again, it's not too important, but let me just briefly go through this. Corner location is covariant with the translation. Meaning, this is a corner, it has some XY coordinates. If the uh, the corner changes, okay, if this shifts, then the XY will also shift accordingly in a co-varying way. But the actual value R score, this actually has an R score, right? This also has an R score. They need to be very similar. Meaning they need to be invariant to translation. So location of the corner obviously changes, okay, in a relative, you know, in a relational way. Actual R score should not change, does not should not actually, you know, change the R score because all it has been all that happened was just she switching locations. Now, rotation though. This is also very important. Same corner rotated, should this greatly affect the R score? No. That's why we looked at that, um, eigenvalue decomposition, try to make sure that no matter how the cor how the corner has been rotated, the eigenvalues are gonna be the same. What are the eigenvalues in a way? It's the length of these two in a way, right? So they're rotated, but does that actually change the shape of this? Not really. All the ratios, the numbers, lambdas are going to be identical. Lambda one and lambda two should be theoretically the same as the lambda one and lambda two of this rotated circle. I mean, it's going to be somewhat different if because maybe there are some other neighbors and maybe some other pixels are involved, but overall, okay, um, our intention is that if even if the corners are rotated, our R scores, okay, based on the eigenvalues should be identical or should be very similar because eigenvalues are not gonna be changed. Okay? So this operation, corner response value itself is invariant with respect to the rotation. We want this, right? We don't want to say that something is not a corner just because it has been rotated in a certain certain angle. Right? So, what's more much more important is now the scaling. What does it mean by scaling? It become means becoming larger and smaller. Okay? Is this process invariant to the image scale? So in other words, can we use the same corner detector function, same window size, same threshold? Is that going to be a good option? So, the same image, we're zooming in this part of the image and it's shown here. In other words, okay, if I have a corner detector and say that, oh okay, so this maybe where should I what should I pick? Maybe this corner. Okay? It has some R score. The image has been zoomed in. Okay? Maybe I use the window size of this. I use the same window size. Okay? And has the R score. Is that actually going to be are they going to be similar? They are not. We somehow need to identify that, okay, the corner has become larger because we zoomed in. We still need to be able to say that, oh, this is a corner, but something that has become larger. Okay? Um, so something that used to be a very sharp corner is not going to be a corner anymore if you look at it in a zoomed in way. Okay? So same window, sharp corner here, it's almost like an edge. Okay? So what do you need to do? Maybe use different window sizes. That's also one thing. But we need to be more systematic about that. So corner location, um, is not covariant for the most part, not covariant to the scaling. So location also is gonna be changed, but not too important. Okay? What's more important is just dealing with this situation. Okay? Just because things got zoomed in, become a large corner, but we still need to be able to say that this is a corner. In which case we probably want to use some larger windows where if you look at it through that large window, it's gonna look like a corner. So, scale invariant detection is what we try to do. So it doesn't matter what the size of the corner is, we are able to still detect that corner under different sizes. Problem is, okay, so here's the problem statement. How do we choose corresponding windows independently in each image? Okay? How do we actually know this circle, this window size is sufficient instead of this? Okay? Because we're looking at the same corner. What used what is appropriate in this size is equivalent to this circle. So in order to identify this as a corner, just same thing but just zoomed in like this, I need to use a much larger window. Okay? Um, but thing about this is that it actually, um, is a way for us to kind of infer the size of the corner. So size of the corner is important. Okay? We want to be invariant, but at the same time, uh, we want to say the function, we want to have a function that says objects with different scales are still similar up to scale. So what does it mean by up to scale? So you may see this word, um, in other places. Up to something means, um, everything's the same except for the scale. So things are similar up to let's say color. That means things are gonna be similar if you just don't care about the color differences. Okay? If you say similar up to scale, then they're the same corners except they're just have different scales. So this is something that we're going to be, um, indifferent about. Okay? Which is basically the scale invariance. There's different scale there are different corners at different scales, but I don't care about the scales. They're just the same corners. Okay? So, um, this is what we want to do because in some images what we eventually want to do is if we see the same corner in this other image, so for example, if we have a good corner detector, we know that this corner is the same as this. We need to have a way to characterize that this corner is just this one but larger. Okay? We need to be aware of the scale uh the scaling. So we don't care about the scaling, but that also implies that we know that there's a scale difference. They kind of go together, right? We just not it's not that we have no information about scaling. We know the scaling information. This is a larger version of this. Okay? But we just want to still say that they're the same. But still able to realize that they're different they're at different scales. So, um, happens here. Uh, what we're going to be doing is designing a function, uh, on the region which has the same shape. So what we want to do is still be able to identify the the maximal, um, the spot. So this is the region size. Um, what is this? What is this trying to say? Um, while I think about this, uh, before it's too late, let's take the attendance. Um, okay. Let's look at this instead. Um, what we're going to be doing is set multiple sizes. Okay? So, if we just use a single window size of one, then the issue persists. So what we're going to do is try multiple window sizes. Let's say the red one is one, purple one is two, uh, green one is four, and the yellow one is eight. Okay? So what happens here is on the left, this small corner, um, is going to have is going to look like a corner if you look some sort of a corner if you look at it through this window. This has the similar characteristic as if you look at this other image through this green circle. So they are similar up to these two scale differences. Looking at this corner through the window size of one is going to have a very similar R score as looking at the same corner with a window size of four. Similarly, if we look at this same corner through this window size of two, the purple one, is going to have a similar effect as having the window size of eight in this other image. So, the plot that's shown here is exactly that. It's the region size, the window size. So maybe this is three, five, seven, nine, and what not. Okay? On one image, same corner is going to have the highest response under some window size of this. In this other image, the same corner, um, something happened. So maybe it's going to have much, uh, the same identical R score when the window size is smaller. Kind of going from here to here. Okay? This is where the I guess the peak is. So this is maybe the window size of four. But if in a smaller, you know, in this other image, this peak happens at an early stage, not four, but let's say one. So it maybe has this sort of a pattern. Okay? So, what we want to do is be aware of this scale-wise in, um, differences. So we should be able to say, oh, the left one and the right one are the same corners under these circumstances. Okay? So, let's look at this. Um, a good function for scale detection. We want to have a good function, um, that basically says under different window sizes, I want the one that actually has the one only one peak. If it has multiple peaks, what it really means is that okay, if you look at the same thing from this window, this size window, it's a good corner. But if you look at it from this size window, it's also some sort of a corner that I don't know what I don't exactly know what it's going to look like, but we want to have something that has a very strong response in usually just a one single window size. Okay? So, okay. Then, uh, it's pretty much identical to what I tried to say. So let's just repeat that process. Um, I'm looking at two windows. Okay? Same window sizes, but I'm going to start increasing it. So initially, this is where the response, spectral response, uh, this corner response of this corner, this window, and this is much lower. Doesn't really look like a corner. This has a much sharper characteristic in this scale. So let me start increasing it. Okay? The box increases and it has reached the peak when it's the window size has the window size just about this has the highest response. Okay? This still needs to grow. Maybe like this. So let me just start growing it. Now it's going to go down because you're looking at some other non-corner things. So the overall R score is going to start dropping. And this, oh, uh, so just kind of skipped a lot. Some at some point, maybe around here is when the scale was the highest. So what you can tell is if you compare the this window size and this window size, in other words, if you look at the same corner through this window size, this corner with some larger window size, if you just compare those two, they're going to be looking very similar uh similar to each other. Okay? Because that's we're using the same functions. The point at which, the window size at which the uh the scores are the largest, if you compare these two, then you'll be having this effect. So looking at it through this and this, if you just crop it out and then compare them, they're going to look very similar. Okay? We're going to be doing doing that in a pretty systematic way. So a function response, uh, function responses for increasing scale, it's basically the scale signature. Um, signature is like a characteristic, right? So some corners is going to look like this, some corner is going to look like this. So different corners have different patterns. We also want to care about this pattern. Okay? So if it just drops like this, that means if the window size increased just slightly, it's going to have a very, um, conflicting characteristics. So it's going to look different. If it just kind of stays like this, okay, that means if even if you're increasing the window size, it still has a pretty overall pretty corner-looking characteristic. So this pattern is also like a feature. Okay? Because at different scales, it had different responses. So what we want to compare, what we want to say is if the corners are really similar to each other, that means the overall pattern should be very similar. It's just a matter of shrinking. Okay? If they're really similar to each other, then if we can ex I don't know, extend much further, it's basically like, um, expanding this. So they need to have very similar shapes except one is a shrunk version of the other one. Okay? Because as the scale increases, window size increases, the change the characteristics of the corner also change similarly. So we want to try to look for, um, corners, uh, try to match corners that also have these scales. So, what is a useful signature function? So what does it mean by signature function? Um, we want to use corners only basically that's the question. We want to go move on to the blob detector. Basically circles. Corners are okay, but why why are we looking at corners? Because it has a very interesting, um, sharp characteristic. Blobs are also pretty important. Okay? It's interesting, basically circles. Like this is a blob, this would also be a blob. Um, one thing that's very interesting about the blob is that it tells us the size of the blob. Corners, how do you actually say, I mean we have the idea of large corners and small corners, like I guess like this. Um, I mean it's a large corner because it's big and it's, um, it's not as I guess sharp if you look at it, um, from this zoomed in scale. Circles though. Okay? The sizes are going to be changed, uh, and it's going to be very easy to detect the the scale. Corners, not as useful. It's interesting, but in terms of scale, not not very useful. So, we're going to go move on to a blob detector and we're going to be using what we call the Laplacian of Gaussian. What does it mean? It's just the double derivative. Okay? Second order derivative. Okay? Of the Gaussian in a way. So, um, basically we want to look for circles of different shapes. What do we do? We can use the Gaussian filter like we saw, but what we're going to be using is this. If you look at it from the side way, it goes down, up, down, and up again. Okay? And we can pick the sizes. So, if we place this filter onto this image, highest response. But if we put it put it here and put it here, not as high response. Okay? It's not as high. So, depending on what filters, what functions do we use, one, we are able to identify interesting locations. Two, we're also able to identify si uh the sizes. Okay? Sizes, uh, scales. Scales are very important. Okay? Um, and this is what it looks like. It's just really the second order derivative with respect to the X and the Y. So partial so yeah, it's have a uh this just do the double derivative. And it kind of looks like this. Also called the Mexican Hat operator because if you flip it, looks like a Mexican Hat. Um, and the circularly symmetric operator for blob detection in 2D, second derivative of Gaussian. That's what it looks like. Okay? Um, Laplacian of Gaussian. There's a way to approximate this. Looks complicated. Can we actually have a similar way to approximate that shape? Um, difference of Gaussian is similar to the Laplacian of Gaussian. So what is the difference of Gaussian? Two Gaussians subtracted by each other except they have different scales. In other words, I'm subtracting this Gaussian by some wider Gaussian. Then I'm going to be having something that looks like this red red line. Laplacian is the actual second order derivative like this. Difference of Gaussian is subtracting two Gaussians with different standard deviations. And it's we're going to be having a very similar shape. So, why is this useful? One, easy to compute. Okay? I don't need to take the second order derivative. This is a pretty costly process. Gaussian, you just have two subtracted, simple. There's another one though. This, um, so yeah, it's kind of looks like this. Okay. Um, I'm gonna continue on with this next time because this is a pretty interesting, um, topic. Okay. So I'll see you guys on Thursday.