Okay, uh, I believe the homework is due to uh Thursday, Homework 2 due Thursday. And I'll be releasing the next one soon after that. Um, last time I left off at around here uh talking about matching. Um, since it's been two weeks, super quick overview we've been talking about features. Um, so after we extract keypoints, we derive these SIFT feature descriptors. And they will be used for various things. Uh, first thing we're going to talk about is using them to match images. Um, so we'll be kind of translating these images and try to derive these features and try to match them uh in order to identify that two different images are similar based off of, not based on the pixel intensities, but these features. Um, but matching could be very inefficient. Each image could have multiple, many, many thousands of features. And going through every single one of them and then make this making decisions is very inefficient. So what we'll be doing is trying to do them a little bit more efficiently, okay? Have some shortcuts. So, what we're going to do first is uh suppose we have a database of images. Um, but we're not going to save the images, we're going to save the features. So imagine that these are just database images and they all have different types of features, right? These are the windows of different scales and we'll be just plotting, just combining everything into a one big feature space. So if this is a SIFT uh SIFT feature, then it would be 128 dimensional feature. And what we're going to do is given a new query image, uh try to identify which of these images um in the database are most similar to the query image, okay? We're going to, we're not going to compare every single one of them. We're not going to compare this image, the query image with one of this single image in the database. We're not going to do this sort of a one-to-one matching. What we're going to do is what we call the Bag of Words. So this is the index uh the back of your like I guess textbooks basically has a list of words. And it also shows the pages, the page numbers of which these words appear, right? So um says driving lanes, page 85. Um, DeKalb County, 100 page uh no 153 or something. So it's a way to kind of quickly move to the pages of you know which these words appear, okay? So I'm just going to read off here uh for text documents an efficient way to find all pages on on which a word occurs is to use an index, okay? But what we want to do is identify images, okay? But we're not going to use words, we're going to use features, okay? So we're going to say feature one appears in this these images. Feature two appears in these image you know, two, five, six, whatever, okay? So we're going to be uh analogously using the words as we're going to call them visual words. So instead of having words, we're going to have features or visual words, okay? Visual descriptors. And instead of having page numbers, we're going to have the images or their indices. So what we're going to do is um what we can say here based off of this example is the pages with similar words must be about similar contents. So if certain pages have certain words and some other pages have similar words, then those two pages must be about similar contents. Same thing, we're going to talk about images. We're going to compare images and if images have similar visual words or basically descriptors, then we're going to say those images could be highly likely similar to each other. So using this um what we'll be doing is extracting all these images uh in the database. So these are all the images in the database. Collect all the features. Just plot them or not not literally plotting them, but we're going to save it to onto a database, okay? So this is not just each point is not a not an image. It is a collection of features. We don't exactly know which of these features come from which uh images. But we have these features lying around and we're going to try to group them together. So instead of having some query image feature comparing to every single one of them, what we're going to do is identify some representative um we also call them cen centroids or cluster centers. We're going to try to try to group them like this. Grouping based off of their similarity. We're going to talk about clustering in the next set of slides. Um, so suppose these are somewhat clustered, grouped into um similar I guess features. So ones that are on this side of the boundary, we're going to say oh these are all belonging to let's say cluster one. Ones that are on these boundaries are called from cluster two and these are from cluster three, okay? But this uh there are different ways to identify this um I guess the boss, the most representative one, centroids. Uh I'm going to talk about them later on. So we're going to just treat them as some sort of a black box. We don't exactly know how this works. Just going to talk about them. So, you can imagine is that uh all these let's say these features, if you go back to their original patches, they are they're coming from the patches, right? Of different images. Suppose you go back to all their uh patches where these uh features are originated from, um they must be looking something like this. Okay? These are all coming from the same uh clus clusters or maybe these are all coming from the similar clusters. So this is possible because these features are good features, good descriptors. If these descriptors are not so um I guess uh something that is not as good as SIFT features uh descriptors, then even if they are clustered like this in this feature space, even though they're similar to each other uh to each other, if you actually look at their patches, they may be there's a chance that they may be completely different. These are good features. There that's why features that are closer to each other in this whatever feature descriptor space is are happening to be really actually similar to each other within the image space. So we're going to be people use the word space um in a very abstract way. So image space means whatever they come from the image. So patches could be coming from images. The is this is a feature space. There could be some different spaces. So these features are coming from the image space. And I've been telling you from the basically the first lecture that if we want to identify two patches in the image space that are similar, they must also be similar to each other. It must be even more apparent in the feature space. So if they're similar in the feature space, good features, assuming that they're good features, their patches are also similar. Exactly what we're observing here. Okay? So each group of patches belong to the same visual word. So these are I don't know some triangular upside down triangular visual words. These are all some sort of rectangular ones. These are all some blob ones, okay? So something like this. So visual words for indexing. We're going to be mapping high dimensional descriptors to tokens or words um by quantizing the feature space. So quantizing just means rounding up and down, right? It just means that oh if they all belong here, just going to call them one. Uh things that are here just going to call them three. Things that are here going to call them three uh two. There could be many, many more, okay? So this quantization process uh is a little bit different than what you you may have heard from uh these days. But the idea is the same. Just grouping them, okay? Each cluster has a cluster center. These green ones are the centers. So determine which word to assign to a new image. So if there's a new query image, okay? We're not going to be looking at these black dots. We're going to be looking at their cluster centers first. So we're going to look at these green dots. Okay? So if this comes, we're going to be comparing against one, two, and three centers, not the individual points. Once we identify the group which it belongs to, okay so this belongs to group three because it happens to be very similar to this green dot. And then we're going to be doing the actual searching within this search space, okay? So to compare features only compare query to uh to others in the same cluster or just compare their word IDs. So just do this and then we're going to be doing subsequent process, okay? So inverted file index. Uh so this is a database of images. We're going to be collecting words. So um remember that we had that index page back then. We had the words and then the page numbers. Exactly that. So these are some images and these are also some sort of features. They're already clustered. So this belongs to cluster 23. Whatever this patch belongs to cluster 7. This belongs to 7, 7, 62 and so on, okay? So imagine this has already been done. So and what has been done is just assigning their corresponding cluster IDs. So index database images map each uh word to image IDs that contain it. So word one. So whatever the images that have the word, the feature cluster one, then we're going to just put their image indices. So image 3 has cluster one. So we're going to say word one appears in image 3. Word 7 appears in image 1 and 2. And we're going to be doing this for all the images. So it's like a map, okay? When we say a map, it's basically two information just kind of having connections and relations. So this word 8, visual word 8 appears in um image 3 and so on. What we can use now is if there's a new query image, we can also identify their clusters, right? So um this happens to be, this is a new query image, happens to be closer to that green dot, right? But green dot 7. Okay? So you go to that uh so you look at that file index, inverted file index and say oh okay so which within the database, which of these images have the word visual word 7? Um very easy to find out, right? Because uh all we need to do is just go to index 7 and then look at the corresponding image IDs. So image 1 and 2 happen to be having the same word 7 as this query image, okay? So let's look at image 1 and 2. They kind of look so they do have the word 7 and 7 here, okay? They um and it's not not surprising, right? These images have this Golden Gate Bridge. So and this feature is coming from the Golden Gate Bridge. So you know these two images with the Golden Gate Bridge um would be here, okay? And the word 91 coming from the query image, query look at their word index, look at their image index. Oh it actually happens to be appearing in image 2. So this is image 1 and image 2, okay? Also appears in image 2 but not 1. Okay? Then I would definitely be choosing image 2 um to be the most similar one instead of image 1. Why? Because the new query image having the word 7 and 91 should be more similar to another some some some sort of another image that which has the word 7 and 91. It may have some other words but instead of the over uh if we talk about the overlap, okay? These two images have the most common, okay um most overlapping um visual words. So this is a very very super quick process of identifying potentially similar images within this large large database. Assuming that you have this thing set up based off of your image database, okay? So you go through all the images in the database, you extract all their features, go through all that SIFT descriptor extraction process and identify their clusters and you make this inverted file index and you're ready. And then if you have a new query image, go through that um SIFT descriptor process, identify the corresponding um the word uh centroids, cluster IDs and then you just um parse through them, identify the most similar one. Okay? Um so this is actually pretty uh um well known process. So describing images with visual words. So we're not going to be descri we're going to be describing images only with the visual words. So this image has word 1, 7, 10 and so on. So we're going to be summarizing the entire image based on its distribution of word occurrences, okay? So or distribution or the histogram. So analogous to Bag of Words, okay? So these are the potential feature uh patches. Okay? And we have let's say we're going to be clustering them. So these features have been uh kind of grouped into cluster 1, 2, 3 and 4, okay? And suppose this patch is the cluster center. This is the cluster center, the most representative one of these their corresponding groups, okay? So if there's a new query image, extract all their patches, okay? And then what we're going to be doing is try to identify, okay so which of these patches, okay? Um appear the most. So compare these with cluster 1, 2, 3 and 4. And it seems that uh the similarity, the amount of similarity, amount of times that this matches the cluster one is the most dominant one, okay? It may appear in other clusters, okay? Um because not everything is perfect, okay? If you look at it locally maybe it looks like something like this. So we're going to be looking at the overall distribution of their I guess um the similarity. This image, if you uh break it down into some sort of patches, okay? Then it appears that most of these patches would be appearing here, but some of them appearing in this other cluster, but basically none of them really appear in these other two. This um also another instrument happens to be if you break it down into corresponding patches, okay? And try to match them, it appears the most in here. So the thing is um the reason why we do this is to basically try to describe an entire image with just four numbers, okay? Very similar to the histogram of the gradient that we did in the SIFT feature, right? So we do we don't actually try to um so what we want to do is if you have a patch, we want to try to just represent it with some set set of rules which is the uh histogram of gradients. So we draw all these arrows and then say oh we have this distribution. Um if you uh just arrange it like this then you have 128 numbers basically representing the distributions of these gradients, right? Same thing except instead of gradients we have the visual words. So 1 8 1 4 is basically describing this image. Assuming that you have these Bag of Words. So these are kind of given to you. This is your kind of like um the the gradients in a way, okay? So uh what we can do is start comparing images based off of these numbers. Okay? So how do you compare these two numbers? Look at their Bag of Word features. This itself is an image level feature. So what I mean by the image level, it means it's a feature that describes the entire image, okay? Not the patch. So it's in a way it's a distribution of um these uh Bag of Words features. So this image happens to have uh highest response I guess in feature 2 and some um magnitude in feature 4, okay? Don't exactly have to know what they represent as long as they're consistent. As long as you say this is um they all these images we're going to be looking at the same clusters, then we just have to look at the distributions. So we can use this to measure the similarity of images. Okay? Um and this is just one quick I guess a preview of a way to um I guess compute the similarity. So similarity of images measured as normalized scalar product. So it's basically the inner product. It's another way to um write down the inner product which is another way to write the inner product. So d i, so this is the um guess the one of the we're going to be comparing two features, two vectors, d and q. d i is the um the i-th element of the d uh vector d and then q i is the i-th element of vector q. So different ways of just writing the inner product or dot product. So the formula is as follows. Um it's basically the cosine similarity. Um we compare the inner product but we're also going to be scaling them with these lengths. So these are the L2 norms, right? This uh there you can write 2 at the bottom to to be more um strict about the the formula on the notation. But if there's nothing written basically assume that it's a norm um L2 norm. So what we do is first identify the kind of the similarity and then we're going to make sure that oh the these values, the reason why we do this, okay if you think about this um basically this normalization process, basically we're going to try to care not care too much about the just the overall value, the magnitude. This value is going to be extremely high if the all just the numbers based off of the magnitude. Instead of 1 8 1 4, what if it's like 100 and 800, 100 and 400. Whatever vectors you do the inner product with, this value is going to be high. But it's not because they're similar, it's just because the magnitudes are high. I don't care about the magnitudes. I just want the just looks the similarity of the distribution shapes, okay? I don't want the magnitude to be determining the amount of similarity. I want to look at their shapes. So what what this does is if that vector, okay let's say that this vector d has like 100, 800 and so on, if their magnitudes are large, this value is also going to be extremely large, right? Because it's a really really long vector, okay? So it's a way to kind of scale down. If the vector is large then we're going to divide it by a large number such that the overall value is going to be within certain range. Okay? And that process is typically called the normalization or sometimes called the standardization, okay? So Bag of Words. Um pretty common term, okay? Pros, advantages and disadvantages. Uh flexible to geometry, deformation and viewpoints. Meaning we don't really care about how this looks. We're just going to look at it um just going basically break it down into pieces. Okay? As long as they appear somewhere, as long as we have this composition of these features then um we're good. And compact summary of image content basically means that these features are extremely compact. Um but basic models ignores uh the geometry. So if you don't do anything what happens is we don't care how they appear. As long as they appear, it's going to be okay. So what what I mean by that is doesn't matter where these eyes appear. The eyes could be here, right eye could be here, doesn't matter, right? Because as long as these patches, so this does not care about the locations. It just uh just cares about the appearance whether it is there or not. Which could be a good thing and a bad thing. Um and it's also difficult to identify the optimal vocabulary size. So what I mean by the vocabulary vocabulary size is number of clusters. Okay? This looks pretty intuitive um because just an example but if we go all the way back to these points, okay? If we go all the way back to these points, how do you determine the number of groups? Okay? That's always the most difficult part. We're going to talk about grouping in the um next slides, okay? So this is a somewhat heuristic process. Heuristic means you just try and find out. Uh experimentally just find out which one was um. And background and foreground mixed when bag covers the whole image. Um not too important, okay? So uh I guess this these uh set of slides were very long um but it's for a good reason. It's very very very fundamental vision specific um knowledge that you kind of have to know. This overall process. So basically the foundation of the uh the modern vision even though we don't really look at it this way anymore. Um still this pipeline is extremely important. So keypoint detection, this is where we looked at the corners, Harris corner detector, blobs, right? difference of Gaussian, Laplacian of Gaussian, all that stuff to be able to identify these locations of interesting things, right? That's what we did first. And then using that uh pyramid uh the blob detector, we actually identify the scale. How big we should be looking at, okay? Uh the size of the window that we should be looking at. Um and then we use this uh SIFT feature to basically derive a set of numbers, descriptors, okay? Way to represent try trying to describe these pat set of pixels into a set of numbers and using them for clustering, matching and so on. Okay? So finally done with these slides. We're going to move on to the next one which are on LearnUs right now. Uh we're going to move on to grouping, okay? Um but before we do that let's take the attendance super quick. Okay. Uh these uh this grouping slides uh says grouping but it talks about edges and lines and circles and segments. Kind of weird. Grouping is not oh we have just a bunch of points and we're going trying to identify um things that are similar and then just you know cluster them together. That is true. Uh we'll eventually get there but um this edges and lines, things that we've been looking at, we're going to try to see it from a slightly different perspective, okay? Also very um uh unique set of methods that you'll be observing. So first we're going to be um grouping edges, okay? So the real actual edge detection um we we have been kind of detecting edges right using the gradients um x and y and you know Ix and Iy and such uh so on. Um the goal is to map image from 2D array of pixels to set of curves or line segments or contours, okay? Why? Um because it's one of the most basic features. Um visually and cognitively it's a very important cue. So we're going to be looking at strong gradients and then try to connect the dots, okay? So designing an edge detector. Uh criteria for good edge detector. So good categorization. What we want is to be able to say something is an edge and not an edge, okay? Um when we use the gradient uh uh it doesn't really give you a zero or ones, right? It gives you the the magnitude of the gradients. We need to decide which ones are real and which ones are not real. Basically which ones are good and bad, okay? Good localization. Um detect edges as close as possible to true edge. Um so unless you have a super extremely sharp edge in an image, okay? Typically you're going to be looking at a very rough blurred edge. But I want so you can can be a very blurred edge. I want the edge that I detect to go right through that edge. Okay? Regardless of the size, okay? Um detect edges as close as possible. Return one representative for each true edge point. So we could be have multiple ones. I just want a one representative one, okay? So cues. Um bottom up. Differences in color, intensity, basically gradients. And top down, continuity. Uh so what this means is you could be looking at the edge as a just a group of these small small gradients, okay? And then bottom up process and connecting them. Um or you can look at it from a um just some sort of a high level knowledge. Not not too important um from what we'll be um discussing. So these are some ground truths, okay? Um edge detection results. So this is a ground truth meaning the solution. Um gold standard. Some person has drawn it, okay? But um this notion of ground truth is also very subjective. Meaning um if as long as some if if someone tells me to draw an edge, okay? I could be completely different but it could also be a ground truth, okay? So gotta be very careful about the the definition of ground truth, the solution. It's not really a solution. It could be one of the solutions, okay? But something that we're trying to target, okay? Uh I guess the nature of the edge that which been drawn is something that we're trying to target. Not exactly that this is the only set of edges you can possibly have in this image. That's not really what it means. Basically the type of an an edge is something that is plausible to to humans. And these are all different types of edges. Um also this could be very subjective. Um what we're going to talk about is the bottom one which looks doesn't look that good but this is something that we can easily implement. I'll talk about it soon. And this is some other other method. Um also depending on uh your preference could be that uh that this could be the best. Maybe some people may say oh I want some more details, okay? So this entire process of edge detection um evaluating it, identifying how good the detection results are is a subjective matter, okay? So what causes an edge? What type of an edge do we want? What causes an edge? Obviously difference in um basically gradients. Depth continuity, object boundary, could be that objects actually have boundaries or could be that the foreground and background. Whatever there's a whenever there's a discontinuity, that's when the edge happens. Shadows are also um basically some you know change in intensities, right? And so could be a super uh easy review. So an edge is a rapid uh change in the image intensity function. So what do we do? Identify derivatives. The locations where the um the intensity change is drastic, okay? So this line, the red line, if you just take the 1D row and take it and look at it like this, that's what it looks like, okay? So when is there an edge? Whenever there's a drop in intensity. I want the point at which the drop happens. Okay? Drop or the increase. Sudden change. That's what we want to look at. So this is the gradient, okay? So whenever there's a peak, positive peak or negative peak, you can imagine that it either uh drops drastically or increases drastically. So if you look at these points, that could be where the edges are happening. Okay? Very easy. But if there's a Gaussian noise. So this is a clean image. We intentionally added some Gaussian noise. So what happens is it's a little bit grainy, right? If you take the in uh the gradient of that, it will be taking the gradient of the noise as well, okay? So that's why it used to be pretty clean. This peak used to be very um apparent, very uh sharp. So it could be it's either a no high peak or no peak. But we start seeing small noises because it taking the gradient uh of these all these noises that that occur uh that are present in this current image. So two things are happening. We're seeing some noisy gradients and we're also seeing the reduction of true signals like this. So used to the peaks used to be at like point three and so on but now they're smaller. Okay? Because the nearby pixels are not as the the noises are actually causing the true the sharp gradients to be reduced, okay? It could go up, it could go um but so the effect of noise. Uh consider a single row. So this is obviously it's a more much much more extreme case. Suppose this is an image, okay? Um very very noisy. It's a very very very very sharp small Gaussian noise has been added I suppose. There's a very obvious edge that's happening here. Very obvious change in the gradient. But what you're realizing at the bottom is, okay? This is the gradient of the top plot and what do you see? Can you actually identify the obvious peak? It should be around here. There kind of is a peak but if you were to really just I've not shown this image to you, if I show just the bottom image and tell you okay there's an edge somewhere. Um where is it? It would be pretty difficult to find, right? And what's actually happening here is this very small um I guess where the edge actual edge is happening, there's also a very very sharp noise that's been that's been going on. So overall the the gradient is high but this change, the these small gradients, so if you maybe if you zoom in, um it's not just small gradients, it should be super super um rapidly changing small um noises. So basically the point is that just relying on a um simple uh one dimensional derivative is not going to be going to be enough. So um it's another example. Um so if you just take a simple um gradient where you just take the difference between the one and the one next to you, uh we're going to be having very hard time identifying edges. So this is again an edge, okay? There's a very gradually increasing but obviously definitely increasing part. If you take the gradient, it's going to be hard to identify the point at which the peak happens, the most um drastic gradient uh change in the intensity is happening, okay? So, what do we do? Very simple. Um most basic way to deal with this is to remove noise, okay? So difference filters respond strongly to noise. A difference filter just means the kernel that looks like negative one and positive one. This is basically the simple derivative, right? If you just do this for the entire image, okay, you know maybe one dimensional. That's really just the simple the the textbook definition of the gradient, right? Image noise results in pixels that look very different from their neighbors. Generally the larger the noise the stronger the response. So what can we do about it? We're going to be doing the smoothing. Okay? This is the original the saw that uh the example that you saw. Um apply this uh Gaussian kernel and what do we have? Smoothed image. Noises are gone although the edge is now not as sharp as before. Very awesome. It's it's as expected, right? We are smoothing the image so we remove the noise and we kind of uh smoothed out the the sharp you know um the edge signal that we had. But this is actually a much better. So then what we can do is taking the derivative of the smoothed signal, the peak is extremely obvious, okay? So instead of just looking at the instead of just going from here to here, take uh smooth out the image and then taking the the edge. So all these edge detection process that I'm going to be talking about, smoothing is essential. It's going to appear everywhere. There's a different way to talk about this. Um you know that the convolution is associative. So instead of convolving the image with the kernel and then taking the derivative, we take the derivative of the Gaussian function, right? This is if you've seen this before, right? Take the derivative of the Gaussian and just apply this to the image. So why is this useful? Um convolution is a pretty expensive process even though if it's uh it's parallelizable. So what what happened here is this is the original image. We apply this to the image and we apply this um the gradient process to the entire um to let's say 2000 numbers, okay? So we had to something has been applied to this original signal twice, okay? But here uh what happened is this gradient process applied to this small short signal Gaussian function signal, okay? After this has been done, we just have to apply this once to the image, right? So efficiency is what happened. Um so this saves us one expensive operation of doing some sort of filtering process to the original image. This just has to be done once, okay? Just it's a very simple um derivative process, right? So. So Canny edge detector. Uh filter images with derivative of Gaussian. Basically taking smoothing the image and then taking derivative. Same thing, right? Find the magnitude and the orientation of the gradient. We know how how this works. Basically finding the the the tangent and the magnitude M. We know how this works. And then the threshold. Determine which local maxima from filter outputs are actually edges. What does it mean by local maxima? Just look look at it locally. If you have the entire image, just looking at it locally and identifying the maximum value. Is it maximum within this small region, locally speaking, okay? So determine which of these things uh if you just look at these edges locally, uh we're going to be determining whether they are um above a certain threshold, meaning strong signal of the edges um and that would tell tell us whether they're actual um good edges or not. Non-maximal suppression comes back again. Uh we also write NMS for this, okay? Thinning out the wide ridges down to a single pixel width. So um if you let's let's see um this is a pretty uh strong signal to us but the threshold is not going to be just so what we want is say oh this just this location is the um the edge. But in order for that to happen, we need to have a threshold that just barely cuts here and then only leaves a single point, right? But we can't just um have such perfect threshold. Typically threshold is something that has been fixed and should be applied everywhere. So if we say oh uh whatever is above this threshold we're going to call them edges. Then what happens is this entire range is going to be considered as an edge. So if you look at it from an image, okay? Suppose there's a some sharp edge like this. Okay? But it's been smoothed out. So what's going to happen is not just a single pixel is going to go through this. It's going to have a pretty thick ridge, okay? It's going to have oh all these clusters of pixels um are all potentially edges. What we want is to cut him down, okay? Uh thin it out into a single pixel. By doing what? Non-maximal suppression, okay? Not exactly talk uh too much about the non-maximal suppression process um but it's you know how this works. So different ways to implement. Linking and thresholding. So now this is another thing. Uh it's also called the hysteresis. Um the edges are not going to be continuous as you want, okay? Due to various reasons, noises and so on. So even though the edges should look perfectly continuous, it may have some discontinuity. What do we do? Um maybe there should be an edge but this small segment, maybe the threshold was just barely not high enough, okay? So what we can do is, okay if there's a potential connection, maybe we can um have a different standard for threshold. Maybe lower it a little bit and see if this connects. If this actually makes a connection then okay it it just happened to be a small segment where the um the edge score was um just relatively low. So we're going to do is try to connect them. So linking and thresholding, this heuristic algorithmic process is um just abstractly called the hysteresis and um just a way to do the post-processing. So um in MATLAB what you can do is just call the image uh Lena, Lena, whatever. And apply this Gaussian um derivative of Gaussian filters that you know and this is what we get. This is the magnitude. The magnitude does not tell you exactly the direction of it but also just tells you the the strength of the gradients, right? Um that's really that's it. This just the um edge detection that you know. But um the difference is we want to actually do one or zero. We just want to say uh instead of having some magnitude determining the edge or not, I want to eventually make the decision saying that certain pixels are actually so from here, okay? These are not exactly ones. Okay? We need to make the decision. If it's not strong enough, we're not going to call them an edge. And we don't want this thick line to be an edge. I just want a single line going through. Something like this, okay? So it's not clean. There are disconnections. Um maybe the thresholds are too low. So it's trying to detect all these possible background edges that I can't even see, okay? Um that's where uh thresholding happens. So thresholding the gradients with the lower threshold. So we're more liberal about determining uh deciding whether that pixel should be considered as an edge. We're more conservative. We're increasing the threshold. Unless the score is reasonably high, pretty high, uh I'm not going to call that an edge, okay? So the hysteresis where that happens is maybe something like um this. Doesn't mean that this butterfly actually does not have an edge. It should, okay? But for some reason maybe the background was looking very similar to this the edge color. We want to somehow connect it. So connecting this, okay? Through some iterative process is the hysteresis, okay? The um the effect of sigma. So what is the sigma? It's the is the kind of the the wideness of the Gaussian function, right? So if this is high, um the distribution looks wider and wider and it looks becomes more the the strength of the smoothing increases as well. So this is the original one. Um two examples. So one uh edge detection result and the other edge detection result, okay? Uh the question that I have at the bottom is increasing the gradient thresholding or increasing the sigma. So there are two ways to manipulate the results, okay? It's like tuning. Um it's up to you to identify your preference and then steer towards it. So I can either make the increase the sigma and smooth it even more and then try remove let's say these. I don't want these edges. These are pretty strong edges but I don't want this sort of information. I want something that maybe lower frequency, okay? This is just uh almost like a noise, okay? I can either increase the sigma, smooth out the image or I can be more strict about the threshold, okay? So basically in other words, if I want to remove these these edges, I can either smooth it out more so it doesn't even look like an edge anymore or I can still get this and then redu increase the uh the threshold so that it just kind of disappears, okay? So this is the Canny edge detector with the sigma of 1. This is the Canny edge detector with sigma of 2, okay? Um so large uh sigma detects large scale edges and small sigma detects fine edges. Very obvious, right? Um the effect of noise. Where is the edge? I don't know why this appears again. Um same idea. So the edge is a very quick um almost like a detour. You know exactly how this works. So there's nothing really special about this. But I want to talk about things become interesting for lines. Okay? This is where potentially homework 3 or 4 is going to be about. Um so edges and lines are different. Edges are just really just really just change in the intensity whatever. It doesn't have to be a straight line. The line that we're talking about here is a straight line. I want to be able to identify straight lines like this. Okay? I want to fit a line. I want to actually place a straight line as close as possible to these um straight edge parts of these images, okay? So we're going to also call them fitting. Okay? By fitting is we have a line, I want to place it at the right spot. I want to identify the line formula which when you place it onto the image, it exactly is on top of the straight line, okay? Uh the hard part about is that it's not exactly a straight line always. Right? Um theoretically it should be a very straight line but um due to various reasons, okay? We're still based off the edge detector result that we have um based off of this Canny edge detection result, I want to draw a straight line like this. But it's not exactly perfectly straight. These lines are not perfectly straight. One, uh these are still you know pixels so you cannot be you cannot have a diagonal straight diagonal lines. Two, these um gradi uh edge detection results are not perfect. That's why the fitting happens. I want to just place it as best as possible. Um this is also a statistical term as well. It's not just a an um the vision term. So um next set of slides are going to be about line fitting. Okay? Uh so noise in the measured edge points, orientations, things are not collinear. What does it mean by collinear? It's linear um they're all aligned in a way then we call that a collinear, collinearity, okay? So these dots that you see here are not perfectly collinear. They're somewhat collinear because they kind of are in a straight line. But when we want to say collinear, it has to be perfectly aligned. In other words, um if there are three points like this. These three points are collinear if the other points can be described as a linear combination of the other points, okay? So I can actually get the location of these points using these two points. How? Maybe it's extended in a way. Then if it exactly um lands on this point then we say these three points are collinear in in a pretty rough way, okay? Um so these though, okay so if they're not perfectly collinear then what happens? There's a point here, point here and point here. I cannot actually reach here using these two points because I can only go this way, okay? But if these points happen to be along this perfect line perfectly then it's it's collinear. But this collinearity is basically not going to happen in images. Why? Because these locations of the pixels are discretized. We don't have decimal points for these locations, right? So these are all integer based locations, rows and columns. So nothing's going to be perfectly collinear but we're going to be try uh trying as best as possible. Um the other issues are extra edge points. Uh we have good edge pixels but we also have bad edge pixels. But which one do we have to choose? Okay? Uh so these are all practical questions. Only some parts of the lines detected and some parts are missing. So if there's a disconnected ones, how do you actually consider them? Okay? So this is where the least squares line fitting comes. Um statistics. Just pure math. Uh so suppose these these are our points, locations, data points. Could be the edge locations of the pixels, um the pixel locations of those edge pixels or just can be some sort of a dataset, okay? So we have x and y, x and y, bunch of x and ys, okay? Um and what we want to do is identify this line equation. What's a line equation? Basically identifying the m and slope and the intercept, m and b, okay? That basically the best goes through it, okay? But what does it mean by the best? We need to define, we need to have numerical standards, right? Um could this be the best based off of some some standards maybe but uh we want to set a rule okay um a formula such that if this value is minimized then that line is the best. So in other words, what this does is um just the difference of squares um squares of differences. So y is the fitting line. So this is the actual line, right? So we're trying to identify identify m and b. It's a common m and b. So whatever x that I put here is going to be on this line, okay? So this is the y, whatever is on this line, y of the fitting line. And then this y i are the actual points. What am I doing? Taking the difference. In other words, whatever is on this line, okay? I'm going to be taking the direct vertical distance or difference basically and then square them and then sum them up across all possible points that I have. In other words, this E um call you can call it an error, okay? Is trying to find a line that goes through this such that the difference, these gaps between all these points are minimized in this way, okay? There are different definitions of minimum. So it can be uh this sort of a distance or it can be actual um orthogonal distance. We'll talk about different ways, okay? So you want to find a single line that explains all the points. This is another way this is where the statistics comes from. What is statis uh statistics is just summary, right? You have data points. I want to describe this overall trend of these points that I have, okay? Um and a line is a very very simple way to describe some sort of an event, dataset, okay? Information. So varying ways to um inter uh take this line fitting process. To us is really just having pixels and drawing a line. In some other fields it could be a way to summarize the trend or the information that you have. This is a dataset. I want to say oh I have these datasets. They're not perfect but I want to be able to somehow describe them with what? A line. Because typically a line um there things have linear relationship, x and y has some sort of lin some sort of linear relationship. That means if you have many many points, they're all going to be around whatever this line, okay? What does that line do? That explains the information that you have, okay? Now there's a linear algebra that comes. How do we actually compute m and b? Okay? I'm going to go through this step was 40 49. Um I'll try and uh for next 30 seconds and then see what happens. I can rewrite this summation as this. Why? It's very easy. Still a summation but the way that I described this m x i plus b is the inner product of two vectors. What? Um first vector is x i and 1. The other is m and b, right? So m x i plus 1 times b. Same thing, right? Okay? I'm going to rewrite it again. Okay? Instead of having a summation like this, I'm going to I have how many x i's do I have? n n of them. So I'm going to have a stack of them. I'm going to stack them like this. Turn into a matrix, a stack of rows, okay? Then what this does is compu computing all combinations of m's and b's. So m x 1 times b, m x 2 uh plus b, m x 2 plus b, m x 3 plus b, m x n plus b. It's just computing all possible combinations, okay? And what do I have on the right? These are all corresponding y i's, okay? Then this this entire thing is actually a what? It's a vector actually, right? So what do I have here? This is going to give me an x m x 1 plus b. Next row is m x 2 plus b and so on. It's just just a column vector, right? This is also a column vector. So what I actually have is column vector minus a column vector which is just m x 1 plus b what? Minus y 1. m x 2 plus b minus y 2. This is just a vectorization of all possible differences that I'll eventually be sum summing up. How do I sum them up? This is an L2 process, okay? Squaring the L2 norm is the same as taking the squares and then summing them up. Taking the squares of every single element that I've just written down here, square them, okay? And then L2 norm I take the square root of it. But I take the square of it again so this square root is gone. So this entire process is literally identical to this summation term. It's just written in a matrix times vector minus a vector and then square of the L2 norm. Written like this. This is a matrix A, this is a matri uh vector p and this is a vector y. How do I know? It's a capitalized bold face so I know that this is a matrix and it's a vector and this is a vector. Very simple process. Um and I'll continue on from this set of slides um this Thursday.