I believe I was trying to explain the the non-linear SVM, um, the the SVM by default is just finding a line. So how do we ensure that a linearly or non-linearly separable, linearly non-separable points are actually separable using the SVM? So let's see. We're still drawing a line except or a hyperplane except it's not we're not doing in the original space, some higher dimensional space like this phi function. So it's completely arbitrary, it's completely up to us to design in this higher dimensional space. You don't want this to be too excessive, you don't want this to be too small, okay? You want this to be reasonably large. And I also mentioned that the reason why this there's a there's a very important link between this non-linear SVM and this idea of kernel. Again kernel is nothing special, it's just let's not explicitly suppress these into vectors, um, just realize that the inner product of these two is just this. There are some other cases where it's simplified even further, okay? So just think of this as some sort of a predefined function that just takes the original inputs and but eventually has the same effect as performing the higher dimensional inner product, okay? And this, um, I mentioned the the primal form and the dual form of the SVMs meaning solving for the primal form, the w in the primal form is equivalent to solving for the alphas in the dual form, okay? So, and you know that um there's a strong relationship between the w's and the alphas and at this point there's not too much of a difference and there's no not really much of an advantage. But when we're talking about the feature mapping, when we actually start using phi, so the dimension becomes larger, this is when the issue becomes, okay? Um, if the dimension is larger it means the computationally it becomes more com um the like complexity becomes larger, right? The vectors are have a higher dimension that means the number of computations, number of multiplications and additions they increase, right? So you're facing um this inner product here and also facing the inner product between the x's in the dual form. Dual form it has the inner product between the points but the points are now in higher dimensional space. So this inner product is so let's say this is used to be dimension of 10 now is dimension of 100 that means we're doing a inner product of vectors of sizes 100. Uh what's happening the same thing is happening in the dual form as well. Um 10 by uh let's see so used to be 10 by 1 vector product 10 by 1 now it's 100 by 1 by 1 times 100 by 1. So at this point you still think well there's not much of a difference but the big difference is that on the left we're doing the w transpose the uh phi of x. Here we're doing the phi of x i transpose phi of x j, okay? This there's no trick. This there's a trick, which trick? The kernel trick that I just talked about. This does not really look that special in this simple example but um this can be pre-computed. So what does it mean by um there are two things that's happening. One the computation is actually not as difficult as it seems if we design this phi in a clever way, okay? I'll give you an example later on. Two, this can be pre-computed. What does it mean by pre-computed? We already know all the existing x i's and the um the x j's, right? This does not change. This w however changes. So whenever w gets better and better we need to multiply by all possible phi x i's. Here doesn't change. We're just doing all combinations and the fact that we're doing the inner product of the phi x's of all combinations doesn't change. That means before we even start this we can just pre-compute this in a way that okay instead of me doing this every time so uh I guess one thing you have to realize is that typically this objective function needs to be computed repeatedly. This optimization, solving for optimization is not like you give it um just solve this and immediately find the solution. You get find better and better and better solutions. You try you slightly change the um the alphas and then compute this, slightly change it, compute it, slightly change and compute until you cannot find a better solution. That's the typically the basis of all the optimization functions, okay? Um this is in other words this is not a closed form solution. What does it mean by the closed form solution? It just basically means um you can just somehow do let's say inverse and you can just say this is equal to zero and I can immediately find this. That's not possible. We need to iteratively find the solution. That means this thing and also this thing is going to be checked every single time we're improving the solution and that can be thousands, okay? That means this inner product if we do not pre-compute it we need to compute all combinations the inner products of all combinations thousands of times. But this doesn't change. That means we can pre-compute this. Just think we can basically think of this as pre-computed matrix. There's a big matrix such that if you go to row i column j it already has the pre-computed solution there, right? We just need to pre-compute all possible combinations, right? And just save it in a matrix, okay? And then when we need to do this obviously the a's the alphas are going to change so we do need to compute all these but we do not need to do the inner products again, okay? This is something that we can just save in the memory and cache whatever whatever you think about it. Not needed. So uh one big advantage of the dual form versus the primal form is that this pre-computation is possible. That is one thing, okay? So the optimization even though this looks simple this is faster, okay? The other thing that I really want to talk about, okay, is the importance of the kernel trick. Um so the linear classifier relies on a dot product between the vectors like I've been showing you, right? Um if every data point is mapped into higher dimensional space via some transformation phi the dot product becomes obviously this. The kernel function is a similarity function that corresponds to inner product in some expanded just just means that instead of explicitly doing this we can find shortcuts, okay? Now if it's a linear kernel that means there's no um how do I say there's nothing special just a linear uh the inner product between the two vectors, okay? If it's a polynomial kernel, okay, we can actually express the inner product of x i and x j as follows of some degree d, okay? Now um this is not just some arbitrary random thing that I decided. This actually is a result of phi of x i transpose phi of x j where these are actually polynomial functions, okay? Some higher dimensional function. It looks more complicated, okay? It has a pretty high dimension um but it really comes down to this super simple inner product plus one and then the dth power, okay? They're numerically equivalent. We do not need to actually compute this. So this is the realization that people um really keep in mind when they design these, okay? Basically what happens is the way that they design these higher mapping functions really they what they really care about is how simply how how how much can we simplify. So if this is useful but this is complicated then it's not a good mapping function, okay? If this is um the phi is pretty complicated and useful in some higher dimensional space typically higher the dimension better it is, okay? And somehow it really turns down to reduces down to a very simple output then it is a good kernel function, okay? Complicated process can be done efficiently is what we're looking for. So when people back then what happened was um SVM was the best model um out there so people tried to do is the research was to design various useful kernel functions such that this can be um so they needed to consider this eventually and then kind of reverse engineer and then look for and they realize that oh this actually is equivalent to having these complicated and useful phi's but hey look ours is actually pretty simple and powerful so model improved and such. Um the most extreme case is the Gaussian RBF. The RBF stands for Radial Radial okay Basis uh Basis Function, okay? Basically means that we're doing something in the Gaussian space, okay? So we're actually subtracting two vectors L2 norm squared over two sigma two uh to sigma squared. The sigma is uh basically a hyperparameter of your choice. It's really really the Gaussian function that you know of, okay? Minus and that is actually also this is basically e to whatever is inside, okay? Um this is a special case because um this polynomial if we do if we increase the d we're still getting some um you know dimension higher dimension that we can still count. If we do this, this phi, this is actually the effect of doing phi x i transpose phi x j where this actually maps the x i into an infinite dimensional space, okay? That means it's actually just not possible to actually compute this in this naive form anyways so we need to do this and this is the only feasible way, okay? Um so this is kind of like our I guess configuration. When you whenever you try to use SVM it will be asking you to choose the kernel. Are do you want to use a linear kernel, polynomial, Gaussian RBF or it's just going to say RBF kernel, okay? So let me give you an example why uh a polynomial feature map of degree 2. So two dimensional input. Originally it is two dimensional. So first example is x it has x1 x2. Second example is y y1 y2. The feature map um this polynomial function is going to map this x x1 x2 into x2 squared x1 squared square root of um square root of 2 times x2 x1 square root of 2 times x2 square root of 2 times x1 comma 1. So two dimensional thing now turned into a six dimensional feature. Same goes for y. The inner product we can naively just compute this. What is the inner product of phi x and phi y? It is literally if you just compute this it becomes this which is this, okay? If you just do the inner product you'll eventually get this value x1 plus x1 times y1 plus x2 times y2 plus 1 the whole thing squared. That is the solution of this inner product but that is just actually the inner the x transpose y plus 1 the whole thing squared, okay? This thing generalizes to a d dimensional space like I told you. So whatever d that you want to have you can imagine that this feature map is going to get more and more complicated get becoming larger and larger but what happens? All that you need to care about is no matter how large this d is what the only thing that changes is the power, okay? So even though the feature map actually became more complicated higher dimensional you think that it'd be costing more and more but due to this kernel trick you're not actually um it's not going to cost an extra computational power, okay? So this is the uh one example. So for n dimensional output doesn't matter. So dimension feature map size is going to be n times n minus 1 over 2 plus 2n plus 1. So if it's an n dimensional input um just doing this two degree of 2 is going to result in this size feature feature map feature space. So it actually is growing what in a quadratic manner. This is essentially big O of n n squared, right? The way that this feature map is growing it has a quadratic relationship to the original input space. But realize that um the x can actually be what it can be 128 dimensional vector if you're using a SIFT feature that means we're talking about 128 squared sized feature feature map feature space so never do this. In fact we don't have to do that, right? So even more extreme case is the RBF kernel. So this is the kernel um not going to go into this um but the feature map has an infinite number of dimensions. This is the actual um expansion. So basically what it's trying to tell you is this has the effect of all this step where essentially what you're doing is the inner product of some complicated things but this has to be done if for these to be numerically equivalent you see there's a summation of zero uh j equals to zero to infinity positive infinity, okay? It's not an approximation it's it's theoretically equivalent relationship so if you want to do if you want to map this into some complicated feature um Gaussian infinite dimensional feature it'll reduce down to something that you probably have seen a lot, okay? So um even if we are able to have uh use these nice kernels still not going to be perfectly separable, okay? Uh if we have a hard margin SVM that means we never never allow misclassification, okay? If this example used to be here it's okay but somehow this um there's a new example that's kind of you know basically crossing the boundary getting closer and closer to the negative examples we have to not allow this to be misclassified. So what happens? It's going to be very fixated on this weird one because we cannot we cannot um give up on this one. But we're going to start giving up on giving up on those weird one by allowing some misclassifications. We call that soft margin. This margin is not going to be um completely restricted restricted. We're going to let some some of them to be within the margin, okay? So how do we know if something is within the margin? So things that are on these dashed lines are when the x oh w transpose x is either negative one exactly negative one or exactly positive one. Things that are um exactly on the on this middle line is when they equals to one uh zero. That means whatever is between them is when this value is less than one, okay? Specifically if it's in this region that means it's between zero and one. This is between negative one and zero, okay? Uh what we're going to allow is the following. We have this thing called the the slack variable. It's like a we're kind of relaxing some error. So this used to be our original um formulation. This used to be our original formulation but now what we're allowing is having some I believe this is z so um I believe this is zeta um lowercase uh looks weird. Um so this slack variable I'm just going to call this a slack variable is some positive value that allow this outcome to be not strictly greater than or equal to one but something smaller than one, okay? If this value is 0.5, okay? That means uh whatever uh whatever i actually we're allowing it to be in this on this side where this uh distance is 0.5. So remember that this rule is strict. It cannot be violated. Then because so what we're allowing some of them as we solve for w these slack variables are free. That means they can be anything. They can just kind of freely become anything any value as long as it's um greater than or equal to zero, okay? It can be really be anything. So in some cases for example this one we may let this slack variable to be let's say of 0. point I don't know 6, okay? We may let this one to be of let's say 0. point not 0. point it can it has to be greater than one right because what happens it's completely on the other side that means this slack variable is now going to be so this is when it's one smaller smaller zero becomes negative that means this has to be greater than one. So let's say for this example the slack variable is 1.4, okay? Still okay greater than zero greater than or equal to zero. Now what happens is those two examples we let their slack variables to be only only those two to be 0.6 so this one has a slack variable 0.6 this one has a slack variable 1.4, okay? Now that allow us to actually have those to be within the margin so we're not violating them. We can actually have a w such that those two are within the margin while the margin is actually having this sort of a shape. If we actually do not let them to be uh to do not let them to uh let any of the slack variables to be greater than uh zero then what happens is we cannot this one cannot be within the margin. We want to let some of them to be in the margin such that even though we're sacrificing them the overall margin is actually getting larger and larger. Now we don't want this to be just go crazy, right? We still do not want this to be too extreme therefore what we have is this extra term, okay? This is a penalization function sometimes called the regularization function penalty term. We're penalizing for something that is too sweet, okay? This we don't want this to go crazy so we're going to slightly cost um make this to kind of uh so we want to minimize the entire thing, right? We want to minimize this but if we choose 0.6 and 1.4 for those two examples we can have a very very large margin or very very small this value. But at the same time it comes with the cost and that cost is shown here, okay? We don't want this slack variables to be too large and become and you don't want this to be overused because if it's overused this value this positive value is going to go up and up and up. This C is basically giving how how much we care about this penalty. If C is large then we want to be super strict about the usage of these slack variables because even if we have a small slack variable this large C is going to highly penalize it so it's going to not allow them as much. If C is small that means we can have some large slack variables but the overall penalty is not going to be too large so we're kind of making it more and more relaxing, okay? So this there are many things so eta uh zetas are actually the slack variables that the model is just randomly going to not randomly but just strategically choose in order for us to eventually find the best smallest objective term. However we also want to have some sort of a control over how much we want that to happen and that is determined by C and C is your choice. You let the model to be too strict by having a large C or very relaxing by allowing a small C. This is your parameter and this is often called the hyperparameter because it's not a parameter that you solve for it's something that you choose beforehand, okay? It has your preference. So this soft margin SVM is very important because even if you try super hard you may not be able to find a line the uh the class linear classifier that perfectly separates them. There is easily a case where there could be a uh positive example here some sort of outlier then what do we do? We need to have a very very large slack variable for that example for us to have a reasonably good linear classifier. Basically we want to kind of ignore this, okay? This is some examples are just not possible with a hard margin SVMs, okay? So this idea is extremely useful. So now let's um I have a demo um made by someone else. So um I'm gonna put it I'm gonna start putting dots positive examples and negative examples. Uh there are various things um I can choose the kernel quadratic radial basis function and the sigmoid, okay? And you see some of them actually have some parameters um that come with uh this is basically another way to look at it is basically a sigma that we have. Um quadratic let's talk about linear first because this is what we already know. We want to highlight the support vectors so I want to be able to identify the support vectors that determine the shape of the line. This is actually pretty trivial when it's linear but it does not become trivial when it's not linear. I'll give you an example. So I'm gonna draw two lines or two points. These are the support vectors. Now if I put points on this side or this side is is it gonna make much difference? No because of this uh classifier is completely determined by the support vectors. No matter what I do here okay something start happening why is it happening? Um probably has to do with this slack variable. This so think of this as like a C, okay? I'm being I'm being super strict but I may want to allow some misclassifications like this. I'm being very general, okay? Let's see let me put a green dot here red one here green one here red one here, okay? See how these lines are completely dominated by the support vectors? Maybe there's a green line here there's a uh what and line doesn't look very nice so what I'm gonna do is slightly allow the slack variables to be like this maybe this is what you want I don't know. Um if I put a red one here it uh it still happens so things are still okay but as you can see the these red uh red dots these support vectors are basically um on this margin I don't think the margin can be smaller so this is not completely zero. We are still letting some slack variables to be large it's just that um just it's not a reasonable one so let me slightly increase it there you go. So what you can what you're noticing is that the variables the points that are within the margins are all support vectors, okay? Even these ones are support vectors. That means their corresponding alphas are going to be non-zeros and um when we compute the the w all of them are going to be used. Now let's start making things more complicated uh let me clear points. So green points see where this is going and that red points okay no matter what I do it's not able to classify them. What can I do? Change the kernel to what? Quadratic. What happens? This basically has the effect of that x becoming x comma x squared, okay? Think of this as having some sort of higher dimensional space I cut that I cut this space in using some hyperplane and then just projecting that contour onto this 2D space, okay? So now it's uh you realize the support vectors are actually creating they're the ones that is uh that are determining the shape of this disc or whatever circle this is, okay? So if I increase this kind of probably look more and more circular and then see how the margins are getting smaller and smaller. Um things are not nice because I'm probably need to increase this value um to let's say 50. Okay. This is basically the sigma um so it's we used to have something over two sigma squared but doesn't matter right as long as it's uh we know the relationship. This uh this variable is actually gamma in Roman numeral it's like g in um Roman numeral, okay? So this gamma is going to determine I guess the shape of the Gaussian function. So if uh this versus let's say 100 okay see what's happening here now? Um basically what's happening here is every point is its own support vector. Every point is considered as a support vector, right? So unless when a new point comes the red one let's say it becomes gets inside here. All the other spaces okay no matter where the red real so suppose there's an unseen example that comes and it should be a red one but it it kind of lands let's say here or maybe I don't know here okay so suppose there's a new red one here, okay? I need to make a decision based off of this, okay? But this region okay should all be considered as a green green circle negative points but a new one comes right in between all these red ones but this boundary is just too tight. This decision boundary is way too tight such that sure it is able to separate every single example in the training data set the data set that is given to you but it is not able to generalize to new things. If a red one comes here it's going to be considered as a green one. Even if it's just right next to this even if it's here it's not going to be classified as a red one because this decision boundary is at this point is that extreme case that I mentioned every single uh high infinite dimensional space you can separate everything this is what's happening. It's not a good thing though, okay? It has zero generalization capability. So if I put a um okay and if I whatever red one whatever I put it can actually classify that, okay? Now that just changed the complete I guess the manifold of this thing now it's actually focusing on green one I don't know can't really understand the dynamics of this, okay? Let's play around I mean it's it's not a good thing so basically being able to have a very very tight boundary is not a good thing. We want something that is reasonably large um I use pen this probably makes more sense right? That means if you have red points unseen points landing here we're going to be able to say that it's a red point, okay? So this is kind of like this is basically the um most important I guess concept that you probably don't want to miss for all AI models. It's not about separating everything that you have the best it's about separating the new things the best, okay? So are there any other ones? Sigmoid what does this do? Okay whatever um has some weird very weird hyperplane that I have no idea how how this works, okay? Just playing around with this gives an idea of how how SVM should be behaving, okay?

잠시 쉬겠습니다.

[Break]

앱이 맛이 가가지고... 형... 박세완이에요. 형 아까 박세완이 왔나요? 네 감사합니다. 네. 커널이라는 거를 이해를 못하겠는데... 그 함수 미리 정의된 함수라고 봐... 내적을 하기 싫어서 그냥 미리... 유사 그 근사한거예요? 근사가 아니라 정확히 똑같은건데... 거듭제곱이 되면 더 복잡해지는거 아닌가요? 내적하는거보다 빠르 빨라서... 이게 원래 원래... 어떻게 그 같을 수가... 아까 거기서 저기 그걸 좀 풀어서 제가 한 부분이 있었죠... 이런식으로 나와요... 이거를 내적한게... 얘를 어떻게 디자인하느냐... 그러면 나는 뭐 d 디멘션이면 이렇게 풀었을거다라는 뭔가 그게 있어요... 이게 삐인거죠... 이럼 되게 좋을거 같잖아요... 그냥 억지성으로 좋으면 안되고... 이게 어 되게 쉽게 이렇게 풀릴 수 있네 하는 것들을 디자인하려고 노력을 많이 하죠... 이게 5 n제곱인거죠... 얘는 5 1인거죠... 뭐 5 엄밀히 따지면은... 계산 이 계산을 봤을때는 삐 내적은... 그쵸 n n이죠 그냥... 얘는 이게 뭐 d가 뭐가 되든 상관이 없는... 그런 펑션이 되는... 네.

Okay, give me a few minutes and we'll take a break. So 1:50 so we'll come back at 1:50.

[Break]

Okay, let's start. So um some wrap up with the linear classifier versus the nearest neighbors so basically SVM versus the KNN. Linear classifiers low dimensional parametric representation meaning you need to have parameters like numbers that determine the line um at very fast at test time meaning takes long to find the line but it's easy to use the line, okay? Cons disadvantages can be tricked to find the best kernel so we don't really know which kernel is the best one and learning can take a very long time for large scale problems so if there are thousands and millions of points then still takes time. Nearest neighbors pros works for any number of classes doesn't matter how many classes you have you just need to do the voting. The decision boundaries are not necessarily linear so no matter what examples that you have uh decision boundary is not going to be linear. Non-parametric method not exactly true um because you still need to determine the k number of uh nearest neighbors they want to choose and is very simple to implement. However test time so every time you want to test a new unseen example you need to compute everything. Um this linear classifier what do you really need to save? All you need to save is maybe the w vector but nearest neighbor you need to store everything the entire data set is your model, right? So there's a storage issue. Um and you also kind of need a good distance function so meaning we decide on the distances right? Some things are close far um what I've been showing you are just simple um just L2 distance but we often use some additional distance functions um especially using some sort of Gaussian function so the things that are farther away um are weighted less, okay? So there are some things that you still have to design choices that you have to make. So not one so there's no best one absolutely best one um.

Before we move on uh hmm so I've been thinking the uh so I'm always going to talk about features, okay? I'm always going to talk about the SIFT feature because that's the only thing that we know. Features are basically numbers we have a bunch of numbers, okay? The texts also have numbers. This has a feature, this has a feature, this has a feature, everything has a feature, okay? So this is a vector vector vector it's a series of vectors essentially, okay? What the basically the only thing that we did was increasing the variance. What does it mean by the increasing the variance? Making the numbers vary more. Making the numbers the large number small number mins and maxes make them larger and smaller, okay? In other words the numbers that used to be like one two one five how do we increase the variance of that? Multiply by some number multiply by some number greater than one then what happens is maybe turning into two four two ten, okay? The range of the numbers okay of the feature numbers increase meaning the variances go up. It basically happened to be kind of um it happened to be uh the solution to making these each of these words more expressive. Basically the point is these features were able to be used and be able to be expressed like this except that their expressive powers were not strong enough. All we needed to do is increase the variance literally just multiply by some sigma greater than one make the numbers larger in a little bit tricky way but still. And that okay allowed us to be able to actually control the bias and variance tradeoff, okay?

The rest uh forget about this this used to be a homework assignment but I don't think this is going to be a homework assignment um but uh hmm actually has the process of this entire typical training and testing um pipeline so I guess I'll talk about this eventually but just not not today um. Due to the room condition I'm gonna stop the lecture here. Um I'll see you guys on next Tuesday.