Okay, um, we're talking about scale. And uh, different ways to look at it just doesn't just mean that we're able to um, consider scale and identify corners or things that are similar um, up to scale, meaning um, if two things are different and but the only thing is that are different is scale, then we're going to consider them to be similar, okay? So, we need to, but one thing that we also need to do um, is to also identify the scale of the feature that we're looking at. So, if it's a corner, how big is it? If it's a blob, how or if it's a circle, how large is that sub circle? Because that is actually is a pretty good indicator and it helps us to identify um, things that are at different scales. So here, we're trying to identify whether these two corners that are um, at the axis are identical. So, what's going to do is um, we're going to increase the scale, meaning just increase the size of the window and to see if how the the corner the function responses. So as we increase the scale, the size increases. So we're trying to look at it from far and far farther and farther away uh from from this spot. And this is what happens. So on the left, what it means is that if the window has this whatever sizes, um, if you look at this corner through that size window, it's the most special one. It's the most interesting. But the other one, slightly larger, right? It same same corner but we're slightly zoomed in a little more. So that peak occurs at a uh at a larger scale. So larger window. Maybe this one is the most responsive at this um this size window. This one is the same thing but smaller. Okay? And there's also a pattern. Okay? So what you may be able to identify is um, let's see. If we keep on increasing the size of this, it's probably going to have taper off like this shape. Okay? Because we're essentially looking at the same thing just through different size window. So, it's called the scale signature. It's basically the scale characteristic, how it goes up and down. Okay? Um, and this is what it shows. So this is the size of the window at its peak. This is also the size the window at the other peak. So we're almost capturing the same region. So you see where this black area is kind of, so this if you cut it like this, almost exactly matches this size, right? So if you just crop it out, if you crop this out and then have them turn them into same size and they're going to look almost identical because that's when these two um both happen to have the same um scale response.

Um, we've been talking about corners, but like I said last time, we want blobs. Blobs are just circles. Okay? So we're going to be using this Mexican hat operator or the Laplacian of Gaussian. Okay? And then just think of this as basically another filter or kernel. And we're going to just perform the filtering operation and it's going to have the highest response um when the size is about this big. This one is for circle of this size, this size, and so on. Okay? So what we can tell is we are the one who decide the size of this kernel, right? We know how many pixels there are from here to here. We know the size of this window. That means if we identify a circle, we also know the size of the circle. Okay? So if we're using this, we're essentially trying to only detect circles of these sizes, of these sizes, and of these sizes. Okay? Before we see the uh the outcome of such filter, let's look at how we can um construct this operator. Second order derivative both ways. But there's a simpler way, which is the Difference of Gaussian. Okay? So if we subtract, so let's see, this red one is the um the Difference of Gaussian, okay? And this is negative. So if we have let's say a sigma of 10 and a sigma of let's say 5, okay? This one is a wider one. This is a sharper one. So, okay, let me write it again. Um, wider and sharper. So if we take the difference, if we subtract this um, so if you do this bottom one minus the top one, it's going to have negative numbers here. So approximately these spots. And then there's also a spot where it flips. So the the wider one is larger than the the sharper one. That's where the value becomes positive. And eventually they're going to be pretty much identical and tapers off to near zero, not exactly zero. Okay? This is much easier to compute. That's why if you see that they're both using sigmas, but the other one has a constant in front of it. Probably something slightly larger than one. Okay? We want this one to be slightly wider than this one. Okay? Wider this is, sharper this gets. Right? So this K is some sort of a constant. This says the just kind of keeps the ratio. Okay? K greater than one. If it's smaller than one, it's going to start flipping. So it's going to probably look like this, right? Because this one is sharper than the other one. So this is exactly what we want to do instead of actually computing the second order derivative of these. Okay?

So what does it start looking like? Um, if you perform a Gaussian filter to the left one with a K slightly greater than one, that means it's going to be obviously it's going to get blurrier. Um, but this one, left one is going to be more blurry than the other one, the right one because the K is greater than one. So it's going to have a wider Gaussian function, Gaussian kernel, it's going to look blurrier and blurrier. And we've seen this. This is kind of like that sharpening filter, right? We have this low um large detail, small detail subtracted, you have this very sharp high level details. Okay? Um, you can essentially think of this as the filter response. If this happens to have some sort of a um, let's see. If the the filter sizes were almost perfect, then this this um the this dot, black dot would have appeared with the strongest response. Basically looking for um a blob. But as you can tell, this also detects edges. So it's not just only looking for circles. Looking for circles means it's also looking for just gradients in like 360 degrees. So it's going to start looking for, it's going to have reasonably high response at edges as well. Okay? Which is what we want. So it's not just a blob only detector. Um, this is everything detector. Edges, corners, blobs, but it's going to have the highest response to the blobs at specific scales. So what do we do with this? So what does it actually mean? Um, something that I want to point out is that this what we're doing here is essentially image already filtered with this specific Gaussian, right? This is original image filtered with this Gaussian. Okay? But what we've been looking at is this. We're not talking about the subtraction of the images, we're talking about the subtraction of the kernels. So what we essentially uh what we can do is have the I subtract the kernels and apply the convolution. Or we can apply the convolution with this same image with this with the other one and then subtract the image. This is that's what we're seeing here. The effects are the results are identical. They have to be. That's what the convolution is, right? So computationally speaking, it's probably easier to do this and then apply that to the image. But what I'm about to show you soon is that we're not going to actually do that. We're actually going to apply these to the images and subtract them for a good reason. Okay? So there are two ways to look at this. To detect blobs, we need filters that look like blobs. Um, that's what we've been looking at, right? All the edges. The filters actually look like edges. You have 1, 2, 1, -1, -2, -1, and zeros. This is essentially like an edge. So if you're looking for something that some sort of a pattern, you're essentially building and constructing a filter that looks like whatever you're trying to find. The pattern that you're trying to look for, right? So we can use something like this. It's essentially like a 1D blob, right? Um, can use this. But as as I'm going about to tell you for other reasons, um, we want to do the Difference of Gaussian. And with a DoG, which is called the Mexican hat operator, we can have a smooth filter that looks similar to the one above. Thing is um, looks similar to the one above. Typically uh we always smooth the image. Okay? So even if we just use this blocky operator, we'll eventually going to smooth it out. So what we can do is just apply smooth out the operator and apply that to the image, which is essentially the same as making something that looks like this. Okay? But we're not going to use that. We can also just use the Laplacian of Gaussian or um the Difference of Gaussian. Okay? Also the convolution with the Gaussian filter is computationally more efficient for numerical reasons. The other way uh to look at it, kind of outside the scope of this class, but you may see these words frequency. Okay? Or band pass filter, whatever. Okay? So I'm going to just briefly talk about this. Low frequency means like large signals. Something that are big and um slow. Okay? Like big uh circles, big edges, big objects. Okay? And high frequency are the ones that are sharp. That have a high frequency. Which means the signal that you're looking at, talking about very fine details. So blobs have sizes. Uh spatial sizes correspond to spatial frequencies. So images, so if you're looking for a very big detail, not too not too much detail, not too big of a detail, but something something in between. Okay?

So, um, this subtraction of the blurred images allows to build something what we call the Difference of Gaussian scale pyramid. So what's a pyramid? We're um starting from something that is large, you gradually get reduce the size. Um, looks like a pyramid. So whenever you see the word pyramid, that's kind of what you want to see. Scale some some sort of a changes in scale methods that deal with scales and they go down or up and you have this sort of a pyramid shape and that's when you're going to typically see the word pyramid. So, here's what we're going to do. We have the original image um and then we're going to first apply the um the Gaussian uh filter. Okay? So we're going to blur the image by what? A Gaussian function of this specific sigma. Initially. That's what this is. Okay? Then as we go up, what we do is blur the blurred image. Okay? So fill so you apply the filter once, apply the filter again using the same Gaussian, okay? Apply it again, again, and again. So what happens? You're just applied, I was kidding. So this is the original one, let's say. Try it once, twice, three times, and four times. You just blur the image same image four times. Okay? So it gets blurrier and blurrier, blurrier and blurrier. So what is what's the effect of this? Um, essentially the Gaussian uh the kernel, okay again uh so it's it's the original image. First apply that means you apply you apply the uh blur blurring filter with 2 to the 1/4 power of standard deviation. Try it again. That actually has the effect of applying a slightly larger kernel. So that's what this is. This is again, you're applying the same one but you're it's like applying a much larger kernel, much smoother kernel to the original image. 2 to the 4th power. If you do it again, then what this essentially becomes is the just the 2. Okay? So what I'm trying to say is uh you have the original image, make it blurrier, blurrier, blurrier, and blurrier. That is just just um you're although we're using the same size filter repeatedly, that actually has the effect of making it somewhat blurry, more blurry, super blurry, and even more blurry. And it has it has increments this way. So eventually the image that you get at the top is just using a sigma of 2. Okay? So why are we doing this? We're basically have a stack of blurry images like this. Okay? So it becomes this, this becomes even blurrier and blurrier and so on. So we have four um images that gets um blurry here as it gets up. Then what do we do? We do the subtraction. Okay? So we can kind of precompute this in a very fast way. Just apply once, twice, three times, and you have four images. Do the subtraction. Then what do we get? We get the Difference of Gaussians. Right? So we are basically, so this image is would be the one on the left and this would be the one on the right. So we can also get the angle by looking at the gradient direction. Right? This is important. This is also important. We've only been looking at just um combinations of let's say Ix and Iy. Or I Ih and Iv. Right? We're going to first compute the magnitude. For each pixel, we're going to compute the magnitude. And also identify the angle. Okay? So we're just going to skip this easy part. So suppose this is an image. Okay? All these black regions are ones and um bright regions are zeros. Here, the magnitude would be would be 1. Okay? And then the angle would be holding this way. Zero. Zero degrees. Okay? This, again, the magnitude is 1, but the angle would be 90 degrees. Here, the magnitude would be 1.41 and the angle will be 45 degrees. We can do this. Every single pixel, we can compute the M and the the angle of the gradient. Right? So this is where what we're going to be using instead of just raw pixels. Everything's going to be about the gradients. Okay?

So SIFT. Um, we're going to do this in a very systematic way. First, uh we're going to take a uh so first we have a let's say a patch. So we have a really large image. Um, remember that uh those squares uh plus and the circles. So suppose we have already used the blob detector, identified the potential location. We know the size of the window that we need to take. Let's take that window, let's cut this out and then this is what we see. We're not going to we're not doing this on the entire image. We're trying to describe these local interesting areas. Okay? So this this whenever we say um take a 16 by 16 square around the detected feature, it means we cut out that patch and then we're going to divide it into physically divide it into 16 by 16 window. This is a 8 by 8. Um, but if you have a large image, small image patch, take it out. And suppose this is what this uh patch is. We're going to literally divide it into 16 by 16. Okay? So each area has like a small um set of pixels. And you have 16 by 16 these cells. Okay? And you compute the gradient um orientation for each pixel. We can kind of precompute this, right? So at each pixel, at this this is a collection of pixels. It's not a single pixel, okay? Remember that this is a collection of pixels. And each pixel has the M and the uh the arctangent, the angles. So okay? And then we're going to create a histogram over edge orientations weighted by the magnitude. So that means is here you have a set of pixels. They all have the angles and the magnitude. Suppose the length reflects the magnitude. So at each pixel, maybe angle is this way, but it's the M the strength is not so so big, so it has small arrow. The other pixel, it points maybe this way, but the M is large. So maybe it had um I'm just representing that. So it has this direction with large M. This direction with okay M, this direction with super large M. We're going to have this for every single pixel and there are many pixels in this small cell. Right? If there are many pixels and then they all have these arrows, we can actually compute a histogram. Angle histogram. What exactly is a histogram? It just we're just binning into a intervals. So this one is let's say how many bins are there? Let's say there are eight. That means this is from 0 to 45 degrees. This is from 40 let's say 46 to 90 degrees. This is from 91 to 135. This is 136 to 100 uh 180. So we're collecting, okay? Pooling information. If this one is let's say 70 degrees or something, then we're going to increment this cell by a certain amount. What amount? Either you can just count it just because we have that direction, we can just count it. Or just plus one. Or you can reflect the M. So this belongs to this cell because it has this angle between 45 and 90. But it's a has a big M. It's a very strong gradient. So I'm going to put large value to that cell. Okay? That's what it means by weighted by the magnitude. Weighted means you're reflecting um so if it has a large magnitude, put large number to that bin. This is the histogram. The typical histogram that you know. But we're going to define the bins based on these equally sized angles. Okay? So we're going to have this for every cell. There are many pixels. Those pixels are going to contribute to this histogram. Okay? Uh what you see here is just I guess the visualization of this. Okay? This is bin 1, this is bin 2, this is bin 3, right? So let's say let's say these are bin 4, this is bin 5, 6, and 7. Or there should be 8 bins. Um, if this arrow is long, that means whatever belongs to this bin um has a very uh large histogram value. If the arrow is small, whatever is in that this bin has a very small histogram value. It's just a way to visualize this. Uh same information but different ways to visualize. Right? So this one is the has the highest histogram value. So it's the longest. Second longest gets smaller and very small. Goes goes up again and then gets very small and then same values here. Okay? This will have it for every single patch. Okay?

Um, so I'm going to talk about the binning. I basically explained everything but suppose this these are the gradients. Uh we're going to group them. If it's approximately up, then we're going to say one. Approximately bottom, two. Approximately right, three. And approximately left, it's four. So when we say uniform which, we're going to ignore the magnitude. This one is equivalent to this one is equally important as this one. This one is as equally important as this one. We're just going to count them. Then what happens is how many ones there are there? These two, there are two uh uh twos are there are three of them. Three is there's two. Four, there's two. So this is the histogram. We're going to do we're basically doing something that I've described before. Okay? But we want to reflect the magnitude somehow. In this case, if it's long, then we're going to count as one. If it's short, then we're going to count as 0.5. This is more fair, right? So this is what we're going to do. And what we end up having is this. So this is a so even though it looks like 8 by 8, it actually should be 16 by 16 by the way. Each cell has eight values. What are those eight values? These bin values. Why are there only eight? Because there are there are eight bins. I just need eight values. I know what the angles are. I defined it, right? So at each cell, which is a collection of pixels with their Ms and the and the angles, datas, you construct a histogram and it summarizes the entire all these pixels Ms and datas into a histogram. Again, histogram is also in a way a statistic. Okay? It has eight numbers. What are those eight numbers? Just the values in this eight cells. That's it. So this has eight numbers. This has eight numbers. And those eight numbers are basically describing the general kind of like a distribution of the histogram in that cell, right? So again, um going forward, each one, all these 16 by 16, each cell has a histogram. But then each bin has eight numbers. So as a whole, we have 256 times 8 numbers. What is that value? It's almost like 2000, right? So we have 2048 I believe um values in this single window. Not what we want. We want to reduce it. So how do we reduce it? Instead of 16 by 16, we have 4 by 4. 4 by 4 by 8. That is 128. So instead of trying to describe it as detailed as possible, we're going to somewhat reduce the size of this the dimension of this feature into what? 128. So this feature that we're going to talk about, called the SIFT, is a 128 dimensional feature. We're going to turn this into just a vector. Same numbers, just ordered differently. It's a 128 dimensional most iconic um feature descriptor of computer vision history. Okay? So yes. Quantize the gradient orientation. Basically the binning. And then each uh the weighting. Okay? Weighting based on the magnitude. So we have a 128 dimensional features. This is what it looks like. Um, it's a patch of an image, okay? Um, so this is actual 16 by 16, what 16 by 16 looks like. And this is a patch of a some much much larger image probably. And uh here are bins. That's why you know it makes sense that there are many pixels in each bin. And what the arrows that's shown is just the most representative one. Okay? You don't have to pay too much attention to this. Except it's happening between different combinations of uh the standard deviation sigmas. Okay? So we have a collection of Gaussian um Difference of Gaussian. Essentially what we're doing, okay? Is we are performing this Difference of Gaussian filtering operation to the original image at different scale. What scales? 2 to the 1/4 power, 2 to the uh 2/4 power, 2 to the 3/4 power, and then 2 to the 4/4 power, basically just 2. Okay? So we're gradually applying larger and larger Difference of Gaussian filtering operation and getting the results. Okay? This is similar to what we did before with this. We're slowly increasing the scale. But here the scale is the size of the window, but what we're doing now is the sigma. Small sigma to large sigma. Small sigma looks for small blobs, large sigma looks for large large blobs. We're essentially doing this for entire image by how? Difference of Gaussian filtering. But that Difference of Gaussian, we're not actually applying it um trying different sizes of uh different scales of different uh DoGs, different Difference of Gaussian filters. We are just subtracting blurry images repeatedly and getting that exact same effect. Okay? So, and then there's one subsampling. So we're not going to do this forever. Um once we do this four times, we're going to make the image smaller. Just cut it by half, okay? In both directions. And then um we're going to also apply the same filters over and over again. I forgot uh what the what this step would be. But you get the idea. So series of operations and then reduce the size and then again you're computing the Difference of Gaussian images. So what's important about this? Um, what we have here is essentially a scale signature. Sigma goes up, okay? Um, if the image size has been reduced, even if if we use the same sigma, it basically has the effect of doubling the sigma, right? Because if the Gaussian filter looks like this, if you apply that to this image versus this image. This is has a much much more smoothing effect than applying it to the larger one. So this huge jump, okay? Is actually uh reduce uh increase has the same effect as increasing the sigma so let's say sigma goes up and up and up. This actually has a huge jump here. Okay? Which is what we want. We're going to gradually increase the sigmas. So this is what it looks like. Um, initially the differ uh the Difference of Gaussian image looks like this, but then it goes up. Okay? What we want to pay attention to is let's say this black circle, it um has is probably locate trying to identify this one, this spot. Um has the highest response at this scale. So this one, you can probably imagine that scale going up this way as the scale goes up. Okay? So in this this spot has goes to this scale. This one, the let's look at the bottom one. It's probably um which one is this? It's I think it's this one. That one is the most prominent at this scale. Okay? So we can do this for all the spots. So essentially this is exactly what I what I'm trying to tell you. We are trying to find interesting places. These are all interesting places. Okay? If we only use a single response, okay they're all you know still interesting. These all these high uh bright areas are the ones where they're potentially blobs or corners or circles and such. But we also want to identify sizes. Okay? Because if you look at this um butterfly from something else completely different, okay? Maybe you zoom in, cut the image like this and look for this. That spot is going to appear much larger. Right? This one is going to look like this. That means, okay? But we still want to say that oh these are two of the same spots. How do we do that? We're going to compute the blobs and then be aware of the sizes because eventually what we want to do is put a window around it and then try to turn it into what we call the real features. Feature descriptors. But that means we also need to know the size of this blob. Basically saying, okay this blob actually is interesting when you look at it through this window. Therefore we cut this window out and turn it into a vector. Cut this window out, turn it into vector and then when you look at them, they're similar because you're looking at them through the right size window, right scale. So it's not just about locating interesting things, but it's also important to identify the scale of the interest points they're looking at. Because that allows to put the box around it and then allow you to allow us to analyze it, describe it, turn it into a vector. This will become much more clear in pretty soon.

So, we used to only have the plus signs to indicate that there's there's something interesting, but now we have the sizes. The sizes indicate the what? The sigma at which this fil the place was the most interesting. So intuitively this is important, right? Some things may not be interesting if you look at it from a small circle, but if you look at it through a larger window, it actually starts becoming interesting. We need that information. We need to know what this is. If you don't know what this is, uh just means that you're just doing some general AI, not not computer vision. Okay? We don't use this anymore um in many cases. But sometimes still used. Uh it really is the most influential work came out in um um ICCV 2000 1999. Um we are about to get cut out the patches and then turn them into very meaningful numbers. Features. That we call the feature descriptor. We're trying to describe these patches. Okay? Uh it's a histogram oriented uh his histogram of oriented gradients. So we're going to look at histograms. You know what histogram is, right? So if you have numbers, you put them into bins. Okay? If you have a bunch of numbers, you put put them into right bins and you form some sort of a statistics, right? Captures the important texture information and robust to small translations and affine deformations. So small translations and um affine means mul multiplication and addition. So affine transmissions or deformations. We're going to get numbers. How do you get the numbers? First, uh let's talk about gradients. Um basically what all the gradients just the same thing um but we're going to be a little bit more systematic about this. Let L be the image intensity. So we're going to take a right pixel, left pixel, subtract them, square um up upper pixel, bottom pixel, subtract them, square them. It's basically the normal very lazy way of computing the um the gradient. Okay? We can also get the angle by looking at the gradient direction. Right? This is important. This is also important. We've only been looking at just um combinations of let's say Ix and Iy. Or I Ih and Iv. Right? We're going to first compute the magnitude. For each pixel, we're going to compute the magnitude. And also identify the angle. Okay? So we're just going to skip this easy part. So suppose this is an image. Okay? All these black regions are ones and um bright regions are zeros. Here, the magnitude would be would be 1. Okay? And then the angle would be holding this way. Zero. Zero degrees. Okay? This, again, the magnitude is 1, but the angle would be 90 degrees. Here, the magnitude would be 1.41 and the angle will be 45 degrees. We can do this. Every single pixel, we can compute the M and the the angle of the gradient. Right? So this is where what we're going to be using instead of just raw pixels. Everything's going to be about the gradients. Okay?

So SIFT. Um, we're going to do this in a very systematic way. First, uh we're going to take a uh so first we have a let's say a patch. So we have a really large image. Um, remember that uh those squares uh plus and the circles. So suppose we have already used the blob detector, identified the potential location. We know the size of the window that we need to take. Let's take that window, let's cut this out and then this is what we see. We're not going to we're not doing this on the entire image. We're trying to describe these local interesting areas. Okay? So this this whenever we say um take a 16 by 16 square around the detected feature, it means we cut out that patch and then we're going to divide it into physically divide it into 16 by 16 window. This is a 8 by 8. Um, but if you have a large image, small image patch, take it out. And suppose this is what this uh patch is. We're going to literally divide it into 16 by 16. Okay? So each area has like a small um set of pixels. And you have 16 by 16 these cells. Okay? And you compute the gradient um orientation for each pixel. We can kind of precompute this, right? So at each pixel, at this this is a collection of pixels. It's not a single pixel, okay? Remember that this is a collection of pixels. And each pixel has the M and the uh the arctangent, the angles. So okay? And then we're going to create a histogram over edge orientations weighted by the magnitude. So that means is here you have a set of pixels. They all have the angles and the magnitude. Suppose the length reflects the magnitude. So at each pixel, maybe angle is this way, but it's the M the strength is not so so big, so it has small arrow. The other pixel, it points maybe this way, but the M is large. So maybe it had um I'm just representing that. So it has this direction with large M. This direction with okay M, this direction with super large M. We're going to have this for every single pixel and there are many pixels in this small cell. Right? If there are many pixels and then they all have these arrows, we can actually compute a histogram. Angle histogram. What exactly is a histogram? It just we're just binning into a intervals. So this one is let's say how many bins are there? Let's say there are eight. That means this is from 0 to 45 degrees. This is from 40 let's say 46 to 90 degrees. This is from 91 to 135. This is 136 to 100 uh 180. So we're collecting, okay? Pooling information. If this one is let's say 70 degrees or something, then we're going to increment this cell by a certain amount. What amount? Either you can just count it just because we have that direction, we can just count it. Or just plus one. Or you can reflect the M. So this belongs to this cell because it has this angle between 45 and 90. But it's a has a big M. It's a very strong gradient. So I'm going to put large value to that cell. Okay? That's what it means by weighted by the magnitude. Weighted means you're reflecting um so if it has a large magnitude, put large number to that bin. This is the histogram. The typical histogram that you know. But we're going to define the bins based on these equally sized angles. Okay? So we're going to have this for every cell. There are many pixels. Those pixels are going to contribute to this histogram. Okay? Uh what you see here is just I guess the visualization of this. Okay? This is bin 1, this is bin 2, this is bin 3, right? So let's say let's say these are bin 4, this is bin 5, 6, and 7. Or there should be 8 bins. Um, if this arrow is long, that means whatever belongs to this bin um has a very uh large histogram value. If the arrow is small, whatever is in that this bin has a very small histogram value. It's just a way to visualize this. Uh same information but different ways to visualize. Right? So this one is the has the highest histogram value. So it's the longest. Second longest gets smaller and very small. Goes goes up again and then gets very small and then same values here. Okay? This will have it for every single patch. Okay?

Um, so I'm going to talk about the binning. I basically explained everything but suppose this these are the gradients. Uh we're going to group them. If it's approximately up, then we're going to say one. Approximately bottom, two. Approximately right, three. And approximately left, it's four. So when we say uniform which, we're going to ignore the magnitude. This one is equivalent to this one is equally important as this one. This one is as equally important as this one. We're just going to count them. Then what happens is how many ones there are there? These two, there are two uh uh twos are there are three of them. Three is there's two. Four, there's two. So this is the histogram. We're going to do we're basically doing something that I've described before. Okay? But we want to reflect the magnitude somehow. In this case, if it's long, then we're going to count as one. If it's short, then we're going to count as 0.5. This is more fair, right? So this is what we're going to do. And what we end up having is this. So this is a so even though it looks like 8 by 8, it actually should be 16 by 16 by the way. Each cell has eight values. What are those eight values? These bin values. Why are there only eight? Because there are there are eight bins. I just need eight values. I know what the angles are. I defined it, right? So at each cell, which is a collection of pixels with their Ms and the and the angles, datas, you construct a histogram and it summarizes the entire all these pixels Ms and datas into a histogram. Again, histogram is also in a way a statistic. Okay? It has eight numbers. What are those eight numbers? Just the values in this eight cells. That's it. So this has eight numbers. This has eight numbers. And those eight numbers are basically describing the general kind of like a distribution of the histogram in that cell, right? So again, um going forward, each one, all these 16 by 16, each cell has a histogram. But then each bin has eight numbers. So as a whole, we have 256 times 8 numbers. What is that value? It's almost like 2000, right? So we have 2048 I believe um values in this single window. Not what we want. We want to reduce it. So how do we reduce it? Instead of 16 by 16, we have 4 by 4. 4 by 4 by 8. That is 128. So instead of trying to describe it as detailed as possible, we're going to somewhat reduce the size of this the dimension of this feature into what? 128. So this feature that we're going to talk about, called the SIFT, is a 128 dimensional feature. We're going to turn this into just a vector. Same numbers, just ordered differently. It's a 128 dimensional most iconic um feature descriptor of computer vision history. Okay? So yes. Quantize the gradient orientation. Basically the binning. And then each uh the weighting. Okay? Weighting based on the magnitude. So we have a 128 dimensional features. This is what it looks like. Um, it's a patch of an image, okay? Um, so this is actual 16 by 16, what 16 by 16 looks like. And this is a patch of a some much much larger image probably. And uh here are bins. That's why you know it makes sense that there are many pixels in each bin. And what the arrows that's shown is just the most representative one. Okay? You don't have to pay too much attention to this.

Okay. 2시 13분만 까지만 빨리 하겠습니다. (I'll just do it quickly until 2:13.)

Yeah, I'm showing you examples. They're uh one what I've shown you is way better. So his histogram of gradients. So this basically the same as the the SIFT except actually much simpler. Um, kind of like a downgraded version of SIFT. So HOG came out first and then SIFT came out um I think next. So back then one of the things that people try to do is pedestrian detection. Try to identify people, walking people. Walking people are standing up. They have these very pretty defined shapes and they try to use the gradients and then have this thing called the HOG feature. It's a HOG feature histogram of gradients. Basically like a map. If some if you look at images, divide into the cells, kind of look at the histograms of gradients. So, um, this is a 128 dimensional feature space. So you're only seeing three dimensional here. Imagine there are 128 axes. Okay? So in this entire image, put all of them together. Just pool everything together. Okay? When we see close points in the feature space, we have a similar descriptors, which indicates a similar local content. So if there's a new image, what we want to do is try this and then compare against everything in your database and then look for the closest one and then start suspecting that oh maybe this image is similar to this image. Okay? Basically what we did before um with the uh the edge um features. Okay? So what we want to do is indexing local features. Um, I'm going to talk about this pretty soon. I think this is a better way to understand this soon. We're going to put them onto this feature space, okay? Get more, everything goes here. Animation failed. Okay. And then put all these things together and what do we do? We're going to group them. Grouping. Quantizing, clustering, all mean the same thing. Going to turn them into groups. Meaning things that are within the same group are similar features. Not perfectly identical, but are similar features. Like this. We're going to group them. This can be and the size of the number of groups is up to you. But you can also think of this as a quantization. Just grouping. Okay? Or clustering. We're going to consider this as a black box operation for now. Meaning we don't exactly know how it functions. Suppose that it is it is possible. Then we can see that oh these patches are all coming from the same, so if let's say if we take all these patches and then a features and then look their corres look at their corresponding patches, this is what we see. If we consider all these features, each one is coming from some patch, right? If you look at all their patches, they look similar. This is what we want. Right? These are called the visual words. So each group of patches belongs to the same visual words. So these are all, we're going to describe as something. Maybe a rectangle, black rectangle or something. Okay? They're going to compare them as white triangles. We're going to try to just group them as black circles or something. In other words, we have representative features. Representations. They have some a leader that represents their groups. Okay? So this is maybe um so we don't actually have a sample. We can just take the average and take it's like a centroid basically. So we're going to have these representative anchors or visual words. They're like the leaders. And then what we're going to do is when a new thing comes, we're not going to compare against every single dots. We're going to compare against the cluster centers. These visual words. These green dots. Okay? Because if there's a new one comes, okay? We don't actually have to compare against everything. We're just going to compare, okay. Um this green one basically represents group three. So I'm just going to compare myself to this green dot. The centroid or the cluster center. Okay? It's the cluster, it's a center, called the cluster center. So all we have to do is not compare all N features, N dots, but only compare K number of features uh the these uh cluster centers. Cuts down the um time complexity a lot. Once we identify the group at which I should go to, that's when I start looking at the things within it. Okay? I it turns out that oh I actually am closest to the group two's uh cluster center. Then I'm going to compare against everything within that cluster. I just cut down the entire process by I don't know depending on the number of clusters. Okay? So to compare features, only compare query to the others in the same cluster and such.

Gonna talk about the next the the rest of them um not next week when do we come back. 다음 강의가 언제죠? (When is the next lecture?) 다음 주 아니고 2주 2주 뒤? (Not next week, two weeks later?) 14일 맞죠? (14th, right?) 네. 이교시에 출책을 하면 이렇게 돼요. (Yes. If I do attendance in the 2nd period, it happens like this.) 그냥 결석 아님 출석 밖에 없습니다. (There is only absence or attendance.) 지각은 그냥 50분 지나면 다 지각이에요. (Being late is just considered late after 50 minutes.) 그래서 상관없어요. (So it doesn't matter.) 다 결석 아님 출석 밖에 없습니다. (It's all either absence or attendance.) 저흰 지각 없습니다. (We don't have tardiness.)