Okay. So uh the image mosaic uh we're talking about this. We've been talking about the uh transformations... uh transformations, but specific type of transformation where all nine parameters are being used for this transformation we call this a projective transformation, right? So it's like the cameras are actually rotating, so it's not that um the plane's fixed, we actually have the planes moving back and forth. So what we want to do is able to transform one point in one image to the other point. Okay, it's actually the same point because they're looking at the same object, but they appear at different places and I want to be able to identify this homography transformation matrix which transforms the x y of p1 to w x prime w y prime and w of p2. Okay. So yeah uh this is what's happening. We have this is called the projections. As you can tell we have the image planes are the projections of the objects. So the same objects appear in different places depending on how you place these uh projective planes. Projective planes are essentially just your your image basically, right? So I want to be able to identify this green uh this red spot that I'm drawing right now, okay, and this one, from the corresponding point 90 comma 40 in this other purple image. They're pointing at the same objects. They're the same corners. Okay. So image mosaic, this is our goal, be able to transform so identify the functions, homography, uh sorry I don't have the mouse right now so it's kind of look weird. I want to be able to transform all the points in this so suppose this center one is my reference image, right, because in this mosaic this is the only one that is has not been uh transformed, right? The other one, some part of this, this part is let's say is responsible coming from this projection. I want to be able to identify the function that points that puts this point onto here. That puts this point uh let's say let's suppose if that's that point onto this point which is what would be a projected onto this reference plane. So this huge plane on in the back is the same as the reference plane. So this reference one is basically on the same plane as this entire huge canvas. This one's not. So I want to put all the points, everything in here, place them onto this projection projective plane and it's going to look like this and that point, you all you need to do is just concatenate and overlap them on top of them, okay? So that's really the transformation. This point onto this coordinate system. So we can just place every single whatever the image that we have it's going to appear like this in this other projective plane. Okay. So showed you this. Um so image is reprojected onto a common plane. I'm going to call that a canvas image plane. So that for the reference. So um these are actual images that you'll see in your homework eventually. Um it's actually pretty easy because I'm basically giving you um everything that's needed. So I want to be able to identify the correspond uh suppose the correspondences haven't identified. In the old homework what it used to be was I would give you two images and I would be asking you to manually pinpoint the correspondences. So I would be asking you to um specifically so I want to say oh this point uh I would literally just pick this point and get the x y coordinates and I also would literally pick this point and get the x y coordinates and that would be my p1 and p2 or p2 and p1. I would be doing that for let's say five or six points. Okay. Manually, but the homework assignment I'll give you um the points that I have chosen myself uh because even it's not that easy so even if it's off by like one or two pixels it's going to make some difference. Okay. So um I'm just going to be giving you all the points so everyone's got has no issues with identifying correspondences or you can probably try to find better ones. So I want so this is my canvas plane. Okay? These are actual images that you'll see in your homework eventually. Um it's actually pretty easy because I'm basically giving you um everything that's needed. So I want to be able to identify the correspond uh suppose the correspondences haven't identified. In the old homework what it used to be was I would give you two images and I would be asking you to manually pinpoint the correspondences. So I would be asking you to um specifically so I want to say oh this point uh I would literally just pick this point and get the x y coordinates and I also would literally pick this point and get the x y coordinates and that would be my p1 and p2 or p2 and p1. I would be doing that for let's say five or six points. Okay. Manually, but the homework assignment I'll give you um the points that I have chosen myself uh because even it's not that easy so even if it's off by like one or two pixels it's going to make some difference. Okay. So um I'm just going to be giving you all the points so everyone's got has no issues with identifying correspondences or you can probably try to find better ones. So I want so this is my canvas plane. Okay? I want to put every point on this green plane onto this canvas purple plane. Which means I need functions that transforms p1s the green ones from image uh point in image one coordinate to some point in the image two coordinate. I want to be able to identify this H such that p1 becomes p2. That's really it, okay? So I want to move all the p1s. So all these um green dots from which are the p1s I want to turn them into the p1 primes. Okay. So this green one suppose it's maybe this point should be projected onto here which is this point. Okay. So eventually once I do that so this point is going to these are the points that would be matched. Same homography is applied to all five points and they would they should be placed at these places. Okay. That is absolutely necessary because you see this boundary right? So I'm basically placing this image on top of the canvas image. So you can kind of see this boundary artifact right? Maybe maybe not if you zoom in you'll be able to see that it lines up pretty nicely. My transformation is pretty good that's why this road extends without getting disconnected. Right? So this part almost exactly matches this road of the reference image the canvas the p one the canvas image. Matches nicely that's why it does not look awkward that's why even if you place it on top of it the boundary is not as as apparent. But if transformation is not perfect then maybe this road is going to be placed like this and it's going to look disconnected along the boundary. So your that means your transformation is okay but not um not perfect enough so that things start making differences at the boundaries, right? They need to align very well. All these points along the boundaries need to be transformed extremely well such that they'll look very noticeable with respect to the reference. Right. So um this is our goal finding H given what? A bunch of correspondences. Now mathematically um we're going to discuss that soon. So basic procedure. Take sequence of images. Okay. And then compute the homography. This is the hard part. Okay. And then combining the image. Once you once you identify the H then you just need to what do apply that to every single pixel locations of this the purp uh the purple one okay that one to this plane. So not just the correspondences but everything. Which is going to make a another a new image which looks like it has been um transformed and it should be located at the right spot. Okay. Um blend them together and but so blending means um basically somehow dealing with this boundary. Okay? It's not going to look perfect so maybe you can kind of blur the boundary or maybe you can um so each pixel each pixel location right now it's completely uh overwriting with this left image but what you can do is somewhat blend it so that along the boundaries um make sure there maybe 50 50 ratios but if you go farther and farther into this left image okay so maybe these regions it's maybe 60 percent left one um 40 percent right one maybe 70 7 to 3 ratio 8 to 2 and such. So along the boundaries um if you want to blend the image nicely maybe and then start focusing more on the original image. So that's blending part. Um computing the homography is interesting. So we have points. I want to compute H. How do I compute the H? Okay? There's a little bit of a linear algebra going to happen um but it's pretty similar to what we've been doing. Designing some sort of matrix solve for the parameters and such. So assume we have four points. How do we compute the homography? So these are the points um okay. So p we have all these points. Okay. P primes um we have x y x primes and y primes so we have these values. We don't know what the w's are. Okay? So for now let's just um pretend that there's some sort of a w. So what I'm going to be doing is again reshaping this okay reshaping this so that it goes from h1 through h9. We've been seeing we've been seeing this a lot right? So and then what do we do? Design some sort of matrix as follows. I'll and um basically has the effect the following effect. So what I want to do is let's see um I want to be able to solve for H so given all these p primes and p's I want to be able to find H such that this thing is satisfied. What is satisfied? We plug in all different how many p's? In this case let's say four p's. So four correspondences. This H is such um should be designed such that p1 let's say p1 and p1 prime can be related this way p2 and p2 prime are also related using the same H so all those four points can be uh has this equality relationship with respect to the same H. So I want to be able to find such H and this is the design matrix. So if you look at this um essentially what it's doing is the following. Um this value so w x prime is a inner product of h1 h2 h3 and x y and 1. Right? So I can actually write this as do I have the formula? Okay um I'll just show um show it to you in the next uh this page. So question is how did I derive this weird looking A. Why is solving for this why is multiplying A by H these parameters equal thing equaling to zero? So this zero is actually not just a single zero see how it's bold faced it's a vector of zeros it has nine zeros okay. So once I do this um nine zeros or so this A is actually should have whatever number of rows so let's say there are eight number of rows. That means there should be eight zeros here right? So basically what it means is that once we solve for um all these H's dividing everything by h9 does not actually affect the overall solution. Okay I'll um hopefully I'll talk about that later on. So just imagine that this h9 um is basically not really a variable so there are actually technically eight unknowns and eight equations. Okay. So why are there eight equations? Because each point each correspondence gives me two equations right? Two rows. So I have eight rows. So four points four correspondences um eight rows and I'm going to solve for H. So how do I solve this? How do I um do this without uh some how do I do this mathematically? Okay. So p is the transform the point that we want to transform from and then p prime is the what we want to transform to. We're going from here to here okay. I color them uh so h1 2 3 are blues 4 5 6 are orange and the 7 8 9 are greens. Top row if I do the inner product of these two what do I get? W x prime equals h1 times x plus h2 times y plus h3. Second row w y prime equals h4 x plus h5 y plus h6. Last one w h2 x plus h8 y plus h9. Okay? So these are actually essentially the uh three equations can you get you can get right for each correspondence. I'm going to slightly rewrite it okay do some little bit of a um re-formulation. Basically divide both sides by w. Right? That means I get x prime equaling to w over x w x prime over w which is this value divided by w. What is w? We computed w here which is in green h7 x plus h8 y plus h9. Just re-expression okay just re-formulating this. Y prime is the same I'm dividing w y prime by w and I get this. Okay. Now I'm going to do a little bit of a um few more things. Um so what I have is just forget this does not exist forget this does not exist. What we have is x prime equaling this fraction and then y prime equaling this fraction. I'm going to do a little bit of again uh multiply by the denominator there's some more reformulation. I'm going to multiply this by on both sides so I get h7 x plus h8 y plus h9 so I mean kind of weird basically what I needed to do was just place this into w and getting the same thing. Okay just reformulation just um I'm going to rearrange it such that ever on the right side we have zero. How do we do that? Subtract by the right side so what we have is negative x1 uh h1 x minus h2 y minus h3 plus the rest of the things. But I'm going to distribute it so h7 x x prime plus h8 y x prime I just multiplying it by right? Um plus h9 times x. Right? Just reformulation just um distributed subtract it by uh what's on the right side and same goes for this y prime right? Subtract it by all the things here which is here and then multiply everything inside by y prime just expand it like this. And on the right should be zeros okay. This we can expand it so that would include all possible H's and uh H's right? So we should have so each row uh should be multiplied by what h1 through 9. So I'm going to slightly rewrite it such that each equation this equaling to zero has all the H's. So the first row which is the first equation uh which I'm showing you here I'm just going to add h4 zero plus h5 times zero plus h6 times zero and then add everything else. So each equation has all H's. Okay? Even the bottom one I'm going to multiply h1 by zero h2 by zero h3 by zero and then just keep everything else. So I have two equations where I force all the H's to appear and still keeps all the relationship that we wanted. Okay? In other words the H's that I'm trying to find here that satisfy this equality is the same as the H's that I have here satisfying these two the these two equalities right? I just reformulated everything all the H's have not changed. I'm just trying to solve for H using a different I guess formulation that's all we want to do. Now what's the advantage of this? We can stack this okay. Um this row first row multiplied by this H's is equivalent to this first equality uh right and the second row multiplied by this H column is equivalent to this second formula. So what can I do? I can do this for all four points. All right? I can do this for all four points like this. But technically I can do this for all n or all n number of points. If there are n number of correspondences that means I can have 2 times n number of rows. That means the zeros that I have is 2 times n by 1. Oh the row number of rows that I have in as a for this A is also 2 times n by 9 but H doesn't change right? So this top thing is just um trying to solve for H that satisfies this single correspondence. For n correspondences okay I just need to stack all of them and then try to find the H that satisfies this these all these inequalities or all these equalities. Okay? That is equivalent to doing this for all the points. Right? Finding H that satisfies all these matrix um vector product same as finding H's that satisfies this single matrix vector product. Okay? How do we actually find such H now this is a uh uh new topic that I guess new technique that I haven't really talked about um until now uh probably one of the most mathematical mathematically confusing one in this class. Um still not in the end it's going to be surprisingly easy. It's like um that uh what is it the corner detector that I've shown you. After all these steps the way to actually solve this is extremely easy. But I just want you to kind of show the inter uh the insides of this um these steps. So the goal is to find this vector H it's not just a single H right it's a vector H it's a bold faced. Such that this A times H is equal to all these zero. Okay? Now realistically speaking it's going to be almost exact to zero not exactly zero. Okay? That is because these points are not going to be um perfectly picked such that it satisfies all of them. So um how do I how uh how do I describe this. Um so think about this. If there are two points okay if there are two points then that's not going to be enough. If there are three points still not going to be enough. Four is enough okay? Then once you go up to five and more what happens is you have these cases where um these equalities are over formulated. Okay? There's no one exact solution um I mean there's not going to be a perfect equality. So how do I um okay. Uh let me show write this way. If there are two points I want to fit a line through these two points okay? That's very easy I just need to find something that goes through them and there's no other option. I I'm pretty much guaranteed to satisfy the uh these this line going through both these two points exactly. So I need only I just need two points to be able to define a line. But what if there are three points? Okay? There are three points unless the line is perfectly collinear okay this line or this point is perfectly collinear with other points this line is not going to go through this all three all three points perfectly. Right? In practice picking this point the third point or more so that this line goes through them perfectly is not is not it's basically impossible. Especially given that all these pixels are in discrete space. Right? Same thing is happening. We have four points I want to find a transformation that transforms them into some other four points okay? That's minimum number of points that's needed to compute this so there's something that satisfies all of them and there's only one. But there's let's say there's some other point. That means it this one could be such that it's slightly kind of in between the transformation so what numerically speaking we may not be able to get this perfect equality. Just like how we're not able to pick this line uh pick this points perfectly such that it perfectly goes through this line. Okay? So this is still a fitting process. We're trying to find parameters of some function. This was an example of finding a parameter of a line that goes through three functions but if the three point three points are not perfect then the whatever line the error is not going to be zero right? Same thing happening. We're looking for an error but then that is actually not going to be perfect unless these points are perfectly chosen. Okay? So more points are not necessarily better. But numerically um it's going to give us uh I guess more stable results. So that's why I'm saying that realistically it's not exactly zero. That's why this problem is slightly more difficult than it what it looks like okay. So how do we find an H such that the A times H is very close to zero close as possible to zero? Okay? Not exactly zero. So what we can do is to use the Singular Value Decomposition or SVD. This is a decomposition that um I may have shown you at some point. I'm going to break down the matrix A into three different matrices. U D and V transpose. Okay? So like I said going from this product to a single matrix is easy just a product but going from one matrix into a decomposition breaking down factorization of multiple matrices under specific conditions is not easy. I can just randomly do this it's not just some random thing so without any conditions I can break A into what multiple matrices like um let's say uh what are some characters that I can use let's say B times C times D times F and something. Okay? I can do this. If there are no conditions I can make meaningless matrices like where B is A and then um A itself C is an identity D is an identity F is also an identity. So typically these sort of a decomposition or factorization happens with specific very specific conditions. That's when this factorization becomes useful and allows uh it allows us to do something meaningful. Okay? So what are some conditions? I'm going to talk about some conditions. So first we have specific dimension so this A is going to be so this A is already a matrix of 2 um what is what's the size of this 2n by was it 9? Yeah 2n by 9. So this U matrix is a square matrix where the dimension is 2n by 2n. Which is a horizontally stacked so it's a series of small vectors like small u's so this is a vector this is another vector all the way up to u 2n. So there are 2n number of vectors ui. So this one each one is a column vector of size. V is another smaller uh smaller matrix this one is a 9 by 9 okay because A is 2n by 9 right so last dimension should end with something by 9 but V specifically a square matrix. So it has 9 by 1 vectors and there are 9 of them. Okay? So U is basically a huge matrix where you have bunch of small u's okay V transpose so is a transpose of V so where I'm going to put the transpose V with very small vectors. How many of them? Nine of them. So much larger matrix relatively smaller matrix but think of them in terms of a stack of column vectors and I'll tell you why so it's not just any random matrix. Each column actually has a meaning that's why it's trying to express it this way. So I've never shown you this notation. This is the vector of vectors right so each v is a vector so it's a vector of vectors so typically what people do is write it like this v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what that means um is so what are these so all I all you need to look at right now is A V equals to U D. V consists of multiple vectors right so I can think of this as A times v1 and then put a vertical line like through this indicating that it's not just a scalar it's a some sort of vector and then v2 put the two vertical lines like this and then just kind of repeat until let's say v9 and then you have two verticals. So if I had more space I would be writing this but this also means that it's a stack of vectors okay. Now middle one is interesting. This D standing for a diagonal matrix um has the following dimension. It has to have this uh it has to have this dimension right? But the way it needs to be constructed is as follows. So top nine rows is a uh should be diagonal matrix bottoms are zeros the rest of them are zeros. Okay? This decomposition has needs to okay our goal is to decompose A such that U has these u uh small u's V has these small v's and then D has this diagonal matrix like shape like this. There are more conditions more important conditions okay. Um this singular value decomposition is spits out these U and V such that what happens is U times the U transpose or U U transpose U okay is actually a identity matrix. Okay? V transpose V is also an identity matrix okay. It's not a it's not a coincidence it's singular value decomposition SVD intentionally makes de decomposes into this U which has a vector of u's like this okay such that when you do this U transpose times U you get an exact identity. What that means okay what that means is small u i transpose times same u is always what one. U i okay for okay this is true for um let's say I'm going to put second one as j okay where i is equal to j. So in other words when two subscripts are identical it's one. Which means that this identity matrix the the values that are in the place across the diagonal of this identity matrix happens when u is multiplying by its own self right and that is and these vectors have relationships such that if you multiply yourself you do the inner product with yourself you get one thus the diagonals are zero but now it's an identity matrix that means all the other locations should be zeros that means if I have u i transpose u i transpose times u j such that i is not equal to j i is not equal to j you get zeros you are guaranteed to get zeros. These matrices this matrix has these it is composed comprised of these vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called these vectors are called orthonormal vectors okay. Ortho means I guess right angle when you multiply them together you get zeros just like a cosine product. Okay? So orthogonal means once you multiply with yourself you get you get some sort of value but more importantly when you multiply with something else when you do inner product with something that is not yourself you get zero. That's the ortho part comes. Do I have the word here? No I'm going to write ortho part comes okay. Now you may have seen two words orthogonal so orthogonal vec vectors okay that means it what I'm saying here it does not have to be one but if you see orthonormal vectors okay normal typically means you normalize to some value typically one so these vectors are orthonormal vectors because not only you get non-zeros when you multiply yourself you're guaranteed to get one. Okay? That means these vectors are approximately of the same similar ranges in terms of length okay. This is a way to measure the length of them of the vectors right? So if these values extremely high that means u is consist of very large numbers. They're when you multiply with yourself you get one they're about the same range the the length of it specifically should be one. Okay? So these vectors are orthonormal vectors which have these properties and this matrix is called the orthonormal matrix because it has those vectors okay. So singular value decomposition breaks down your matrix into three different matrices where U and V are the orthonormal vectors what we also call the singular I guess these vectors are called the singular vectors okay having these sort of a pro uh these identity pro uh property. Um and the diagonal one the D standing for diagonal has this diagonal matrix in between. It also has um more additional properties so um guess I'll talk uh let's see uh I'll eventually talk about it all right so what that means is that once I break it down into this I'm going to multiply the right uh by the right side so multiply both sides by V. So I get A times V equals to U D V transpose V but as I told you these are orthonormal matrices singular vectors so this basically go um is an identity so what's left is U D V transpose V is just U D. So what we have is A times V equals to U D. A V is equal to U D. Okay? Now what that means I'm going to tell you so what