Okay, um, so quickly finish up the rest of the slides and move on to the next set of slides, um, slide eight. So, um, I'll go through just a few practical matters, uh, things that probably need to consider, but not all of them are up to date, so I'll be just kind of pointing out some things that you don't really need to pay attention to. So, um, comments on training algorithms, so training just in in general. So, not guaranteed to converge to zero training errors, or you don't expect your training error to be zero all the time. Uh, may converge to a local optima, so optima means either minimum or maximum. So this can typically talk, um, implies to, uh, implies either min or max. Or oscillate indefinitely. So your loss is gonna go down but then it'll just start oscillating. It's not gonna go, you know, reach reach zero. It it may, uh, if your data set is small enough, um, that means you're you're basically getting a perfect score on everything, but depending on what the loss is, you're not gonna be able to get the zero anyways. Um, however in practice, does converge to some low error for many large networks on real data with with good choice of hyper parameters meaning you'll get something, but, um, don't expect to be completely uh zero. Thousands of epochs, uh, may be required, hours or days or months of training, obviously. So if you see, um, if you someone says, oh, I my training required, um, 24 hours, that may not be that long. To avoid local minima problem, run several trials with so random weights, so, um, all the all the training that we've been talking about start from some random randomly initialized weights. So we need to start from somewhere, right, our gradient descent needs to start from somewhere. And that somewhere depends on the random seed. So randomly, um, it'll be they'll be initialized with some some distributions. So depending on where you start, you may be able to get better results or worse results. So with just random starts with we waiting. Um, take results best trials, uh, and take results of trial with the lowest training error or use transfer learning. I'll talk about the transfer learning soon.

So one of the things that, uh, very, very common, um, uh, simple mistake that you may initially make is that every time you run the model it's gonna be different. The results are gonna be different a little bit. Um, the reason why is because every time you run something, every time you initialize the weights, every time you start with some initialized weights, they're gonna be different. So all these weights, right, they're gonna be randomly initialized. They'll they'll be so what if you start, um, one trial, it maybe like 0.1, 0.2, negative 0.5. If you run it again, the same network, it'll maybe 0.3, 0.5, whatever. Depending on where you start, your end results are not gonna be chances are they're not gonna be exactly the same. They're gonna be probably different. So you're probably lucky that if you run it every time with random initialized seed, so you know you know, um, if you've taken the, um, some other programming courses, you know that the randomness, they're they're deterministic in a way that the you if you fix the random seed, then the random number generator is gonna be generating numbers in the with the the fixed randomness. So meaning if you set let's say some seed to be zero, that means every time you run something, the randomness is gonna be fixed with this seed. That means you'll be getting the same numbers. So let's say I randomly sample numbers from zero from zero to nine. 1, 5, 4, 7, 7, 9, okay? If I do not randomly initialize a seed and I run the and I try to sample six numbers again, I'll be getting different numbers. Okay, whatever that number is, okay? But if I fix the seed, that means this deterministic random pattern is gonna appear again, so you'll be getting 1, 5, 4, 7, 7, 9 again. Okay? Why is this important? Um, there's always gonna be randomness, but you want to fix the randomness. So every time you run the model, okay, let's say you change the learning rate from 0.01 to 0.1. And I want to see if, um, whichever one is actually better, okay? Thing is, uh, if you do not fix the random seed, then if you run the 0. point 0.01 once, trial one, if you run it again, the results are gonna be different. That means if you run this with 0.01 and then 0.1, the these two results are gonna be different, but you're not exactly sure if it's from the randomness or it's from the change of the learning rates. Okay? It's like the typical scientific experiment. You need to control everything except for the one control variable that you of your interest, which in this case is going to be learning rate, but if the randomness is not fixed, whatever outcome that you get may be the result of this uncontrolled variable that is influencing the results. So, um, just a very common, um, amateur mistake, uh, if you every time you run it, you're saying you're getting different results, chances are you're gonna be getting same results or very similar results if you fix the seed such that when you make changes, whatever changes that you're getting, changes to, um, in terms of the results or performance are from the changes that you're making, um, with intention unlike the random uh the randomness that you're not fixing. So, um, but at the same time in practice what's gonna happen is that even if you fix the random seed, the results are gonna be different because there are also uncontrollable randomness within the within the code. So, um, that is usually okay. It's better than not fixing the seed at all, okay? And there is also, uh, different randomness that can arise. So I first I talked about the weights. So the weights are gonna be initialized randomly, resulting in different results to the point where the results are varying, uh, are different by a a significant percentage, okay? But there is also what what other randomness that we have? We also have the splitting randomness. We have the training. I randomly split into let's say 7 to 3 ratios of training and testing. This is also random, all right? Um, so every time you do not fix this and you try to split it into two, things are gonna be different, right? Um, you're gonna be getting different combinations of samples here and there every time you run the model. That means you're actually using different slightly different distribution of the training and slightly different distribution of the testing to get the results. Which means that your results that you're getting could be whatever up and down from the of the results could be from the luck that occurred from the distributions of the training and testing. It could be that your testing is much easier, consisting of the easier examples. Which means that your accuracy is gonna be higher. Could be that your test, um, your outcome, your final result is gonna be lower because you just unluckily have hard examples in the test set, right? We don't we want to be able to control that. At the same time, um, this is also just some interesting thing, um, just technicality. Suppose this rand samples some number, okay, from between zero and nine. And I have this code that's called the split, okay? That splits it into again 7 to 3 ratios, okay? Um, even if I fix the seed here, I fix the seed, okay? Um, if I run this multiple times, same number, I'll be getting let's say the same number seven, then I'll be getting the same let's say combination. Let's say I I have one through seven and then eight through nine eight through ten eight through ten in this split, okay? But if you somehow decided to call another random function here just that samples another number from zero to nine, what's gonna happen is that it's using the one of the randomness here. So the seed, okay, so the randomness is again deterministic, right, like I said. 0, 1, 7, 9, 7, okay? Let's say this randomness used up this number. This split uses the rest of the numbers to make this random split. But if you have another if you call another randomness before the split, then this rand is gonna be using up the next random number, okay, and the split is going to be using the rest of them, the one after that. Then what happens is your seed even though it has been fixed, it's not for every single individual function, okay? It basically follows the sequence. So if you really, really want to be strict about everything, maybe you can fix the seed for every single random number, but that's probably not a good idea, okay? So I just want you to realize that just fixing a seed does not necessarily mean that you're controlling and fixing the randomness no matter what you do, okay? The order matters, right? The number the set of randomness that is outputted uh that is that you get from the fixed seed let's say zero, if if it ends up using one of them, then the rest of them are gonna be influencing the next set of code and it'll be influencing whatever comes afterwards, okay? So, um, the randomness is something that you always, always need to be conscious of, okay? It may be a good thing, maybe a bad thing, depending on how you control this.

Uh, maybe hard to set learning rate and to select the number of hidden units. So typically you're not the one who decide the number of hidden units, you're not the one who decide the number of layers. They're basically, um, given by many prior works. Just use them. Don't try to make a don't try to, um, experiment with the different number of units, uh, hidden units or layers. Um, learning rate though kind of depends on the the data that you're using. It's not really architecture. So this is about the training part and this is about the architecture model architecture part. So this you typically use whatever uh that's given. This may be up to you. Um, neural networks had fall out of fashion in 90s early 20s uh 2000s but start getting better, sure. Over training, um, basically talking about overfitting. How do you avoid overfitting? Um, this is, uh, we talked about the the validation set, right? If you have the training, this is the training, this is the testing, have a small subset as a validation and treat this like a test. Um, uh, another thing in in practice though, um, this may be useful, may not be useful, um, but these days the the training data set size is extremely large, in the order of let's say, um, hundreds of thousands. Then do you really use the train uh validation set? No. What happens is let's say there is like 1 million uh training example or or data set total sample size. Then maybe you used, um, 100,000 for testing and then, um, 900,000 for the training, okay? Um, the what really happens is that there's so many samples in the training that you uh the validation, so typically what you'll be expecting is your validation curve is almost following the test set, right? Such that you decide when to stop based off the validation. But the validation in this case, you have such a lot of examples in the training, your validation is gonna be super close to the training set, okay? Basically it already is able to generalize to a certain degree. So what people typically do in in like real research practice is they just either train until they really can't, um, or they just set a fixed final epoch. Let's say I'm just gonna stop at 10,000 or something. 10,000 epoch, okay? Typically that should be enough. Doing more or less is not gonna actually cause anything. So what I'm talking about is that the overfitting when you have this sort of a extremely large data set, overfitting actually does not happen as much. Typically underfitting actually happens more. So, um, when you have a if your domain or the data set you have uh in the order of let's say hundreds or or thousands, then validation set maybe enough because you're gonna be experiencing this overfitting. But if you're in the order of millions and millions, then just focus on using as much data as possible to train. Using the validation set may actually um give worse test results or training results, which means that no matter what you do, you're not gonna be it's not gonna be better than just using that 10% of the training for training itself and not validation. So in other words, basically my point is that if your data set is large enough, you'll be seeing that there's no validation. They just use everything as much as possible for training and train as long as possible and then that typically brings you a better test accuracy. So the curves that you're seeing these days is not this. It's this, okay? So more you train, better it is, typically speaking. It'll obviously it'll converge and then it'll maybe just oscillate a bit, but it's better to just not think about when to stop, just train as much as possible with as many examples as possible. So that's why this overfitting issue, um, is a is not just it's not uh does not happen all the time, okay?

Um, training best practices. Center your data, basically means a normalization. Use data augmentation, I'll talk about this. And use mini batch. Um, some regularization, these are somewhat outdated outdated so just don't worry about this. Hyper parameters, you always have to check them. So basically what I'm they're divided into three sections because, um, this is about the data set is data itself. This is about the model architecture and the weights, okay, ways to control them a bit. These are about the just the learning rates and, um, things that are not specific to the model. So these are applied to all the models. These are model specific. These are data specific, right? So these are just three kind of independent components that you always have to consider. Uh, one of the regularizations, uh, dropout. Okay, let me talk about dropout. So standard neural networks you just connect everything and always use everything, okay? There's a thing called the dropout. Used to be popular, I'm not sure how often it's used these days. Um, what happens is that you'll be randomly turning off some neurons. So in other words, um, every time you uh you have let's say mini batch, so I have 16 examples. Now I'm going to be, you know, just feeding this through and then get some results for training. Happens is, um, every layer there's a probability that some of the, um, the layers are uh the neur hidden neurons are just not just they just turn them off, okay? That means whatever the edges, whatever the networks that have been connected to them are gonna disappear and you're not gonna use them. So in this case you can kind of expect the probability of dropping the first layer is approximately let's say 40%. So with 40% chance you'll be dropping some of these layers. So maybe out of five you drop two. Out of five maybe you drop six. I'm guessing it's approximately 50 40 to 60%. Out of five you drop two. So every time you let something through, okay, if you're I'm talking about training, okay, I'm talking about training, you intentionally cut them off. So in other words, you're actually asking the model to rely on some randomly chosen subset of the hidden neurons to be able to perform as as well. So and then if uh you have another set of mini batch and you run this again for training, maybe these are turned on, maybe these are turned off. Maybe these are these are turned off again, but maybe these are these are turned off and so on. So every time you have a new combination, what this forces uh the model to do is to not rely on specific so it does not actually um allow the model to fixate on some of the hidden neurons, okay? It may actually favor if you just use everything, you may actually favor just a few paths or a few neurons, okay? What this does is that you do not actually um have the let the model to be fixated on some of the neurons. You let it actually try other combinations. This is all about the generalizability, okay? Generalizability, regularization. So this it's another form of regularization because you are forcing the weights to be evenly learned. You're not actually focusing on some of them to be um getting too much of an attention. So what you allow is giving everything kind of like a random chance of being used and being focused on. So the curve you're seeing on the right, um, so this is the number of weights updated so just probably means epoch iteration. Classification error, so lower is better. So without the dropout, um, the error stays at around, um, 0.7%, 1.7%. With the dropout, uh, it actually falls nearly, um, down to 1%. So this is one of the most, uh, influential influential works because it's so simple, right? You're just randomly turning them off, but this actually allows the model to be evenly considered, all the hidden neurons and weights to be evenly considered, uh, with some probability.

Um, okay. Data augmentation. Um, extremely useful. Uh, so basically you're augmenting the data. You are changing the data without changing the semantics. That's kind of the point. You want to create virtual examples, virtual training examples. But when I say virtual, I'm not talking about like completely new. I'm talking about some reasonable geometric changes. Horizontal flip, okay? Just because you flip the image does not necessarily mean you change the semantics underlying meaning of the object. So suppose the goal is to be able to classify the the image. So it's an image classification. Apply all these things, but you know that they are all the same animals. You should not the classification should result should not change just because you rotate them, you crop some parts, you change some colors, um, you shear them, shift them, all these affine transformation, you know. Just because you have done some of those transformation does should not be changing the results. So what's happening is that you are actually randomly augmenting the images without harming the underlying class and this has the effect of boosting or amplifying the number of examples in the training set. So all these, so some combinations, you basically have some, you know, typically you have a range. Let's say a flip, you have a 50% of flipping. Um, you have some random crops, you have some random uh randomness of choosing the center and the size of the square of the crop or mask. Color casting, um, geometric um distortion, so you have some rotation. The rotation angles are usually, um, you have a range of rotation angles. Let's say negative 30 to positive 30. So you randomly um sample some rotation angle and rotate it. All of them can be applied um together, okay? Um, resulting in this sort of effect. Very important, okay? Without this you cannot expect to overcome overfitting in almost all cases. Okay? You're basically forcing the model to see a lot of variations of the same image. So if you have um 100 images of whatever this image uh these animals, this theoretically can give you infinitely many samples, okay? Because these uh you're picking from some continuous um range of interval of numbers. All these are gonna give you many, many more combinations and you're getting doing this every um random uh randomly every single time. Uh, you basically have to to the point you don't actually use the original image. So if this is the original image, you're almost always gonna be applying some sort of a data augmentation and never use the original image again, okay?

Almost the end. Um, the transfer learning. Uh, more important than ever, especially these uh these days. You don't even use the term transfer learning because um you just do it without realizing. It's just a such a natural um natural procedure that you do you do these days that people often forget where it came from. So I'll talk about the transfer learning. Uh, the more weights you need to learn, more data you need, obviously. And that's why with the deeper networks you need more data. Okay, one possible solution. Um, set these, so if you have a whole network, set some set a huge part of it to be something that you already learned from some other network or some larger data set. Then if you have a new data set, you only train the ones that are close uh a subset of the um of the networks, okay? That means the amount of weights that you're updating with your small data is actually relatively small because everything else has been pre-trained, what we call the pre-trained on something else. So class transfer learning with a CNN. Suppose the source is a classification on ImageNet and the target is, um, some whatever other other task I want to do. So it's the input all the way down to the output. So what you do is train everything on ImageNet. Like I said, people have trained this and then they'll be releasing the trained model, what we call the pre-trained model, okay? So all these weights are trained on ImageNet for ImageNet classification. And then if you have a very small data set, let's say, um, um, so I do medical imaging. So if you have some medical imaging data set, so ImageNet has like as you know has thousands of examples. Medical image maybe hundreds of examples. That means I don't want to actually train the entire model with only hundreds of examples. I'll be what we call the freezing them. So if you see papers, you'll see like um snowflakes. I can't draw snowflakes, but if you see snowflakes, um, means the model has been frozen means that you don't actually change them. So these you can actually um force these weights to not be changed, okay? You don't you don't actually have to update them, okay? Uh, so in other words, you're for these, for these parts, your W is not gonna be updated by W eta whatever the gradient of the error, okay? There's no update. Only this part. Why do I only train this part? Because I only have a small subset uh I only have a very small data set. So I'm not should probably not be uh attempting to train the entire big model like this. I'm only going to be changing a very, very small subset at the end, a few layers at the end. Uh, why only few layers at the end? As you know, there's a this is a low level even though it's been it's upside down. This is a low level, it's a high level features. And you saw the low level features are not really domain specific. They're like edges, blobs, and you know, corners and stuff, right? So what we're actually doing is um try this part, so early layers are mostly about just kind of talk talking about um capturing the the small level details, low level details of the image. And as you go down, it's gonna be more and more domain specific or target specific, your goal specific, okay? So usually originally it's been about classifying let's say just natural images. But what we know uh from this point let's say you want to be able to classify some let's say Alzheimer disease versus the healthy people. Then these may actually be pretty useful because brain images let's say they still have some features, they have edges, circles, whatever, okay? So we'll be using them. Eventually we need to start transitioning using these features. Think of this as the feature extractors. They're just basically like um SIFT features, okay? It's basically like SIFT features except it's based off of neural networks. You have a very, very nice features and in the end I'm going to be using them for um brain disease classification. If the data set is you have reasonably sized amount of data set, then you may actually try to, so ideally you want to train everything, okay? Um, theoretically speaking. But if you have more data set, let's say instead of hundreds maybe you have thousands, then maybe you can try to learn more and more layers, okay? Uh, so transfer learning is basically you train on one data set and then just try to what we call the fine tune, right? So you have seen this word a lot these days, fine tune. It's from the it's originating from the transfer learning. So transfer learning is where you start fine tuning. Fine tuning just does not it's not specific to transfer learning. Basically means you're making relatively smaller changes. Training this from scratch from like zero in you know random initialization is just a full training, okay? No one's gonna call this a fine tuning. Fine tuning means you're making fine grained training or tuning of the remaining model. So and it's it is originated from the transfer learning. And this is basically the only thing that you're doing these days anyways in modern um um deep learning models. You never learn from scratch. You mostly learn from uh do the fine tuning. So what does it say? Another option. Um, these are more generic, more specific features. So if you have a very little data and you have a very similar data set, use simple classifications, okay? If uh um have a lot of data but then the pre-training data set is uh have a very different data set. I'm not sure which one's which. Uh, which axis is which? Very little data, quite a lot of data. Oh, it's I think it's talking about the data of the um that you're trying to transfer. So you have a lot of data, so N is large, but then the data is also very different. Natural image versus the brain image. Then you can actually start trying to fine tune a large number of layers. So you have data set, so start fine tuning. Not everything, but fine tuning from top, more and more layers. A lot of data but they're very similar, um, you can just try to fine tune just a few layers because they're already similar anyways. If very little data, okay, what you're trying to trans uh transfer to is very little, so N is small and it's very different, then you need to do something else. You're in trouble. Try simple classifier from different stages. In practice you would just still try to fine tune um a very few layers. So I would say this still applies to here, okay? You never know, you need to try.

Um, so pre-training. So all these pre-training, um, uh, transfer learning. So you see the word foundation model a lot these days, right? You see the word foundation model, okay. Foundation model is basically a fancy way of saying pre-trained model, okay? Okay. You are so foundation model it's it has the impression of having some sort of a generalizable capacity, right? It can be used for this, can be used for that. Somehow is able to just kind of extract super, super good features and then do some fundamental things. Creating a foundation model means you're using a um basically doing this ImageNet pre-training almost except it's not ImageNet, it's basically entire image on the internet, um, with super large models. So the word pre-trained model has been kind of been I don't know shifted to be called a foundation model except we still call them pre-trained models. So these foundation models are pre-trained models. So I would say pre-trained models is a higher level um concept over the foundation model. But the idea is the same, okay? Um, all the foundation models, no one's gonna say I'm gonna train a foundation model, okay? The foundation models are typically the ones that are pre-trained to something else and then you'll be using for some some other other tasks, right? So um it's not like an obsolete version of the foundation model. They're I would say uh conceptually speaking they are identical. So have a good source and target domain, train a network to classify ImageNet classes. So I'm just talking about the pre-training process. Train a network to classify ImageNet classes and remove the last layer and try train uh layers to replace them basically uh let's just say, hmm. Not just means that this is the original um task and then you replace this with some other layers to identify some other target tasks or target labels. Uh, transfer learning with CNNs is is pervasive. So transfer learning. I talk about uh the object detection. So this is I think we'll talk about this later on. Um, many times you'll be seeing so starting from this point, uh, a group of researchers have pre-trained this ImageNet, typically ResNet with the pre-trained the ResNet with the ImageNet and then people just start using them, okay? So also this, whenever you see this sort of a thing, many cases you can expect them to be pre-trained models.

Um, why is it here? Semantic segmentation. So you know the segmentation, it's kind of off the topic. Um, segmentation, you know with the with the KNN you know that you can do segmentations. But semantic segmentation means you are actually going to uh classify each pixel. So whatever each pixel I'm going to be uh classifying whatever that pixel represents. So center pixel based off of the nearby context I believe it's a cow. So and I'm gonna be doing that for every single pixel meaning I'm doing the segmentation but it has semantics. I know what that is. It's not just grouping similar things. I'm actually almost like a classification at the pixel level, okay? This is much more useful, much more commonly used. This is uh so often we just shorten it for segmentation but most of the cases whenever you're able to label each pixel we call them semantic segmentation. This is actually a pretty significant difference. So whenever you see a task where you seems like it's seg segmenting something but also is actually classifying what that is, it's a semantic segmentation, okay? Um, talking about segmentation, this is the second slide talking about segmentation. Uh, we do a lot of segmentation uh surprisingly um originates from medical imaging um because in medical imaging uh like this uh it's it's an MRI, okay, specific type of an MRI where you're able to you see this little mark, right? This is called the white matter hyperintensity. It's a small microvascular disease basically. It's it's like a lesion. It's like a um it's slightly damaged. It's very minor damage to your micro vessels, okay? And why is segmentation useful in medical imaging? So it's not I mean diagnosis is important. So I want to be able to classify whether there's the person of this brain is let's say Alzheimer's or progressing into Alzheimer's or has a mild cognitive um impairment and such. But uh often cases you care about the sizes of these what we call biomarkers, okay? I want to be able to check the size of this. Depending on the size of this, I may be one what I can do is, oh, this size is large, this can be like a good indicator of whatever related um diseases. Um, okay? So segmentation actually was much more important, is still very important in medical imaging. And the most commonly used architecture is called the U-Net. So whenever you see a segmentation, you're gonna be seeing this word U-Net a lot. Um, basically 99% of the time. Why is it called the U-Net? Because it shapes like a U, okay? Um, it's old but still very well used segmentation models, okay? So whenever you see a U-Net that means you can expect some sort of a segmentation problem, okay? So in the end what happens is the input goes in, the output is actually a segmentation map. So this should be the output that it should be targeting. So this goes in, the output should be this sort of a a mask, okay? Saying oh these pixels are what I've been trained to highlight, okay? Um, one thing that you notice is um there are few other few things that you may notice. Um, there's no fully connected layers, all right? Um, because image image goes in, image goes out. So fully connected layer is not used in these cases. So, um, you see these arrows and labels? So it says conv 3x3 ReLU, copy and crop, max pool, up-conv, dot conv, uh, conv 1 1 by 1, so 1 by 1 convolution. So these are all convolutions. There's no or convolutions or pooling. There's no zero fully connected layers. There's zero FC layers, okay? So this originated from what we call the fully convolutional neural network. So not fully connected but fully convolutional neural network. Which means the image only has convolutions. In which case they're typically outputting the 2D of something, okay? So U-Net is uh I guess originally uh it's a it's a family of conv fully convolutional neural network meaning that it only consists of convolution related operations. And you see this. You see these random arrows connecting and then um skipping parts. This is almost like a skip connection. So this is called a skip connect. It's from the ResNet skip connect, okay? So whenever you see an arrow jumping here and there across the layers, typ it's some sort of a skip skip this skip that, okay? So what this tells you is it actually um doesn't really add anything. It actually concatenates. So this last thing is gonna be added next to it and then something's gonna happen, okay? So it's actually using the prior information in the later uh the later part of the neural network. So if you think about this as a layer, this is like a lay layers actually increase this way except it kind of takes a weird path, okay? Um, so if the one not one another way to draw this maybe like this. So it used to be drawn let's say I'm not gonna draw every single one. Used to be drawn like this, okay? Let's say it gets larger and larger and connects this way. Uh, another way to draw that is um the pooling obviously makes the image smaller and smaller, right? Like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, okay? You can just think of it as this, okay? Just a different way of drawing this. It's a little bit more convenient to maybe draw it that way, but this is actually another way to draw. So you make you align the layers so that it looks more familiar it's more familiar. And then you draw the skip connection over the layers. So these two are identical representations, okay? So it doesn't there's nothing really special about the the shape. It's just drawn this way and the authors named it like that and then we just start calling this a U-Net, okay?

Um, power for identification, sure, it's one of the tasks. I'm just gonna skip. Packages, this and that. Let me skip a few things. Understanding CNNs, sure, sure, sure. Let's skip, skip, skip. Um, okay. Oh, I'll probably end up with uh uh this. So, uh, breaking CNNs. Um, may have the uh may have heard the word adversarial. Adversarial means doing something bad against you. Um, so people start trying to exploit the weaknesses of CNNs. So this is a a school bus. It has been correctly classified as school bus. Has been classified as not sure what this or whatever this bird is. Um, and then this is whatever this um building or thing is. Uh, once what's what you see in the middle is a is a is a distortion. Um, you're basically adding small bit of a pixel level distortion or noise to the model, okay? Um, and this is the resulting outcome of the image. Are you able to tell the difference? No, because the noises are so subtle you are not able to tell the difference. I mean you kind of can. Um, in this case you see a little bit of a noise here maybe. Um, but in most cases you're not able to recognize these very small changes. These values are actually very small as well and they're very sparse, okay? And it happens over complex regions of the image so you're also not able to tell. If it's over a uh uh pretty flat region of the image maybe you're able to tell, but typically it's it's very hard to tell. So the image has been distorted, manipulated. Now the all everything has been classified, all these images are classified as ostrich, okay? Everything here has been also been classified as ostrich. So what happens is um what what's actually happening is that you're actually trying to fool the linear classifier. So what happens, okay, so typically what how do you update the weights? So we update, so this is called the um um adversarial perturbation. So you perturb the image a little bit in an adversarial way, in a bad way, so that the classification actually fails. How does it happen? It's very I'm just only gonna talk about it very briefly. Typically you update the weight like this, right? In in which direction? In the way that minimizes the error, right? So you're updating the weights. What you can do, there are two things that you want I want you to realize. One, you can actually update the image, right? So in at the end of the model you have an image, right? So you update, update, update all the weights, but then you can also update the image, okay? As shown here. I'm going to change the image with respect such that it actually let's say minimizes the error. That means I'm going to change the these image pixel level image uh details are actually going to be considered as some sort of a learnable variables that can be updated, okay? So if you're just taking another level down, instead of just updating the weights, I'm also going to be updating the image pixel levels, okay? Another thing that you can do is instead of updating it in a way that minimizes the error, you can actually update it to increase the error. But not just increasing the error, okay? You're basically not going down, you're going up. But it's a little bit different. What you're trying to do is update it such that it's actually classifying as something else. So if if you have one hot vector let's say somewhere in the middle is is a cat, okay? And then somewhere else is is an ostrich. Typically you this is our ground truth and I want to minimize the error with respect to this ground truth one hot vector. But what you can do is intentionally teach the model to reduce the error for the ostrich instead of the cat, okay? But not only updating the model. You're not updating the model. What you're going to be doing is updating only the image. So I'm not changing the model. You're not allowed to change the model. I'm only going to be changing the image very slightly, okay? Such that if I change the pixels here and there, it's gonna start gonna start reducing the error with respect to the ostrich. And this is the corresponding additive noise that's been changed that's been added to the image to such that this is actually the model uh the image that maximizes not even maximizes. You don't even need to maximize. One of the flaws of this is that you don't need to maximize this. The ostrich score does not need to be the high uh the the maximum like one. As long as what? It is high enough, higher than the all the other classes, then you're fine, right? So what's this is doing is it's just barely so if if that's the decision boundary and this this sample used to be here, this is the cat boundary and this is the ostrich boundary. It's basically forcing the model the image, okay, to be changed such that it just barely crosses the boundary. So it's on the ostrich side, okay? That's why we're not enforcing drastic changes. We just want them to be able to make small enough change. So it's really not about um so what what they try to do is it's actually surprisingly easy. The model is very susceptible to small changes, okay, enough that even if you make a negligible so visually negligible or non-noticeable amount of change, you may easily confuse the model to be able to classify some other wrong class of of your interest, okay? So this is um you the keyword is adversarial ad adver sarial right um perturbation. Um, used to be very interesting. Um, there are people who are going to be making these sort of attacks trying to break the model and there are people saying that, okay, I can fix the model so such that it's actually does not make this sort of a mistake. And then people are gonna be attacking that model and then defending the model. So there is a cycle of this sort of a um uh I guess it's more of a neural network security side. Okay. Um, let me just almost done. Let me just take the attendance and let you guys go.