So we're talking about classifiers. And first one was the KNN, K-Nearest Neighbor, which is a classifier, but we're going to go through this linear classifier, which is basically finding a line that separates the classes. What I mean by separating the classes, you multiply the feature, the X, in this case would be a two-dimensional whatever feature space, multiply by another vector. This basically determines the shape of the line. Okay? And if you do the inner product, take the sign, whichever ones on the left side would be negative, right side would be positive or basically splitting data into two. So this example data I gave you is when you have X1 and X2 as features, two-dimensional features, and I want to identify, create a line that separates these two. One of them that I mentioned was when W1 is one and W2 is zero. Okay? That's essentially identifying that whenever X1 is positive, so it's on this side, it would be a positive example. And then whichever ones on the negative would be a negative example. Okay? These are not necessarily, I'm not talking about the actual signs of the features, I'm just talking about this would be the negative, if this could be a cat, this will be a dog, just any sort of a binary classes. Okay?

So the question is how do we actually define a line? It's a little bit different than what we've been looking at. So I'm going to first talk about ways to define a line as a vector that is perpendicular to the actual line that you're interested in. So this line is would be identical to the line that we're trying to draw and split. And the way to define that line, parameterizing that line is the following. So first, Y equals negative A over C times X. So this is a typical traditional just a slope intercept form, right? So this would be the slope and whatever comes out after would be the intercept. In this case does not have any, has zero as intercept so it's not included here. Okay? I'm going to rewrite this a little bit, just reformulate it, right? So Y equals negative A over C times X is equivalent to AX plus CY equaling zero. Right? Just multiply by C, this and that. This can be rewritten as what? The vector inner product. So A times X, C times Y, add them together equaling zero. So this literally is the, so in this case think of this as X axis and the Y axis. Okay? So a point, you can have any sort of a point, any point on the line, in this space, if you multiply that point, do the inner product with that point with this line, which is defined as AC, so it's literally a two-dimensional vector. Okay? Then you'd be getting a zero.

So what does it mean to have an inner product equaling zero? That means two vectors that you're doing the inner product between are 90 degrees perpendicular, right? So basically any vector, so remember the X could be a point or vector, anything right? So any sort of a point which is basically extending from the origin, if you multiply with this specific vector facing this way, pointing this direction which is defined by the W, so this could be like two, I don't know, this could be one comma, I don't know, five comma four, something like that. Then A would be five, C would be four, and that literally is a vector that is facing this way. And any point, any point that we can put doing inner product with will be zero. So a line can be defined as any sort of vector or points that is perpendicular to this W. Right? Can be anything. Anything that is facing this, these two directions or any points that is on this line would be perpendicular to the W meaning if we do the inner product with that W, it will be zero. Okay? That's how we're going to start defining a line. Literally a vector of some dimension. If this is a two-dimensional, this is a two-dimensional space, so W is a vector of which has two parameters. So set of points that are perpendicular, that we do the inner product becoming zero. So set of points such that their vectors form, vector forms are perpendicular to W. So all the points, think of them as vectors perpendicular to whatever that's on this line. Okay? So we're going to be defining the line with some vector. So our goal is to identify these variables. Okay?

Now if we have a shift in whatever direction then we have an additional shifting parameter, right? Just the intercept. So it would be negative B over C. Rewrite it and we have this, probably you have seen this form, AX plus CY plus B equaling zero. So our goal is to find A, B, and C. Those would be determining this line. So B is kind of like a constant so just have a reformulation. So W transpose X plus B equaling zero. So we can treat this as a part of the parameter, bringing back there but we're going to have this form because this becomes pretty useful. Okay? So set of points such that W transpose X plus B is equal into zero would be this line. Okay? So this line is defined with this vector W and the offset B. Why do we care about this? Because we're going to be, what we're going to be doing is determining whether a point is on one side or the other that's just computing the sign after we just plug this in and identifying the sign. But we also want to measure how far your point is away from this line. We want to find this distance D. Okay?

How do we compute it? It's actually really easy. So Q, so this W is suppose this is given like this. Okay? So what is D? D is the line that is perpendicular or the shortest distance from P. So this is our point. I want to find this D. But it's not just any distance, it's the shortest one. Okay? When you typically think about how far is the point away from the line, talking about the perpendicular distance, right? So I want to find that D. First thing we're going to do is somehow characterize, express this D as follows. So QP, we have a few things I want to talk about. So QP meaning it's a vector going from Q to P. This vector. Okay? How do you compute this vector? You do the subtraction. Okay? It's the second one minus the first one. So P, this is essentially just a vector or point, right? Minus the Q. Q, what is the Q? Q is a line that actually goes through basically the start of this vector W. Whatever goes through this line here. Okay? The thing is we only know this and this and plus B. We don't really, we can't compute this but suppose we don't exactly know this, let's see how this goes. So this, when you have this arrow it typically represents a vector going from P to Q. So you do the X zero minus X one and then Y zero minus Y one. This zero was something that I talked about. So this is a subscript, right? Just a way of indexing things. When you index things, zero is oftentimes pronounced as not zero but naught. So like, I don't know, if you want to spell this, something like this. Okay? So X naught, Y naught, sometimes it's called that way instead of saying X zero and Y zero. Okay? Kind of like an old school way but I may say that, that's why I'm mentioning this point.

So we have the W. Okay? The length of the W is just the L2 norm as you know. Okay? It's not written here but it's L2 norm. And D is the length projecting QP onto the this vector W. So this distance is equivalent to this distance. And that is projecting this thing onto the vector W. You know what the projection is, right? Imagine there is some sort of a light source and it's like a shadow. Okay? So I want to compute this distance which is identical to this. Okay? That's what I want to do. Then that formula, okay, the projection formula is the following. So D, so I want to project the QP onto W and that is this is the projection formula. I probably have shown you this a long time ago. Okay? Do the inner product with the thing that you want to project and the thing that you want to project onto and divide by the length of the vector that you're projecting onto. Okay? Suppose you have this formula. Let's start computing this. Okay? So QP is this vector. Okay? I have not even computed this. This is just X zero minus X one and then Y zero minus Y one. It's vector and you do the inner product. At the bottom you have the square root of A squared plus C squared. Okay? Just do the multiply each of them so it turns into A times this and then C times this. And I just distribute it and expand it and this is what you have. A X zero plus C Y zero and then you have A minus so negative A X one and then negative C Y one. I just reformulated it and then just grouped them differently.

Since Q is on the line, so Q is on the line, this point is on the line, right? This thing is on the line. It's intersection. That means, what does that mean? That means if you do this inner product with this should be zero. Okay? A X one, right? C Y one plus B should be zero. Okay? So that means is if I do the subtraction on both sides, it means B is equaling A X one, negative A X one minus negative C Y one. Which is this. So this can be substituted with the B. Okay? Then what do we have? A X zero plus C Y zero plus B. Hmm. Kind of looks like a line equation. Right? Just doing the inner product. This literally is the inner product of the X onto W plus B. We know this. We're assuming that we know this. And I want to identify the length of this. And all I really have to do is just doing the W, the line equation, the vector inner product with X, the point itself that you want to compute the distance of, plus the B and divide by the length. So once we know this, computing this distance is extremely trivial which is just this. And we're going to be seeing this a lot. This is going to be very important. So if you think about this, we are interested in what? We're interested in drawing a line such that we separate the points well. What does it mean by well? What does it mean by a good line that separates them? You want to draw them really nicely at the center. And if something is very very positive, let's say that's positive and negative, something's very very positive, that feature is probably farther and farther away from this decision boundary. If things are that are very close close by, okay? Nearby this line. That means you can easily be either positive or negative. Okay? These are basically something that is kind of difficult to classify. Not very positive but somewhat positive examples. Characteristics that are somewhat positive. So this distance actually kind of determines the I guess the positiveness or the negativeness. How strongly characterizes that specific class. Okay?

So first, the distance is a positive number so that's why we have this absolute sign. But if you take that out, what we can decide is the sign of that. So once you know, given, so given the line defined by W and B, for a new point, which side is the point on with respect to that line? So whenever that this formula is positive, so given the X, if W transpose X plus B is positive, then it's on one side. If it's negative, it's on the other side. If it's zero, as you all know, should be on the line exactly. Okay? This is the characteristic that we're going to be using and exploiting for our next method. Okay? So linear classifiers. Find a linear function. This is a linear function, right? We just do the multiplication and addition. Okay? The linear function to separate the positive and negative classes. Let's say these are positive and let's say these are negative. Okay? So red ones are positive meaning all the points, all the points if you do this W transpose X plus B, they all should be positive. And they all need to be negative. Things that are negative should all be giving a negative value. Things that are positive should all be giving a positive value. Okay?

Now we have options. This is could be a whatever W this is could be a one solution. Right? It exactly separates them. So if you put everything in here we get positive. Put everything here again would be getting negative values. B is also an option. Okay? C is also an option. Okay? D is also a possibility. Okay? So there is not one solution. We need to define the best one. And typically when we say the best one you need to numerically be able to express that goodness. How, what does it mean by the best? Okay? What does it mean by the best? We need to first define that and then try to find a line that actually maximizes that goodness. It's like reducing the error. Okay? So which line is the best? Maybe to me is A is the best. Why? Kind of goes between all of them and then the distances between all the points to the line is maximized. So if C is definitely not a good one. We're kind of, that means that if we, if there is a positive example, if there is a new point that comes, let's say is here. You probably think this should be a positive example, right? You probably think this should be a negative example. But this line is going to start making misclassifications. Okay? On the other hand what about A? A is probably going to be able to make good classifications. B and C is just really really bad. D could also be making misclassifications. If there are some positive values here, negative ones here. Okay? If the data, these points are reasonable, this could be easily happening. And this D is just too tight. Okay?

We want to have a one that is relaxed and then can generalize well when new points come. Okay? So that's when this famous SVM, Support Vector Machine comes. Basically we're trying to find a discriminative classifier, a line, based on some operating, based on the optimal, optimal separating line. Or so we're trying to separate the points using a line. In this case is a 2D. We're only going to talk about 2D cases visually speaking but this can be extending to any sort of a D-dimensional space in which case we call them a separating hyperplane. It's a plane, so plane you think it's only a 3D. But once you go up the dimension to like 4D, 5D, whatever, it's still a plane but we often call it a hyperplane. Okay? It's a plane in some higher dimension. So this is our goal. We want to separate them, that's our goal one. Such that, this is our condition, maximizing the margin between the positive and negative training examples. What do I mean by the margin? Basically the distance between the line and the points. Okay? Like this. I have, I want to draw a line such that if I have some two perpendicular lines, okay? Basically the, all whatever points that are on these two perpendicular lines should all be having the same distance away. I want to have draw a line such that this, these distances are maximized. If I draw a line such that these distances are maximized then the line is going to be pretty like this. Okay? So this, I guess the gap between these two parallel lines. Now we want a line that maximizes the margin. Margin is the following. It's the distance between these two perpendicular lines. Okay?

Now we're going to be defining these two lines as follows. The middle one is when all the points, okay, if you multiply them, is W transpose X plus B is equal into zero. Okay? These are the points where the places where you have the W transpose X plus B is equal into positive one. Okay? So in other words the distance, remember that this has to do with the distance, right? Kind of has a virtual distance. It's not like a physically measurable but this distance is equivalent to, okay, see this other side? W transpose X plus B is equal into minus one. All the points that are on this line equal to outputs minus one. All the points on this line outputs plus one. Okay? All the points that are this line that means are greater than one. All the points that are this line are smaller than negative one. In other words I guess the value goes up so it be like negative two, negative five and such. Okay? So this is it. Nothing should be in between. Okay? I want to identify a W such that this is first satisfied. This is the discrimination power, right? We need to be able to first separate them nicely. Okay? But in a little bit in a specific way. Such that the points, there are some points, okay, that are on this line such that they're exactly one. The rest of the points are greater than one. There are some points that are exactly negative one and the other points that are smaller than negative one. Okay?

The points, the Xs, XIs on the dashed lines are what we call the support vectors. Okay? They're points that are exactly closest to the margin, the decision boundary. Okay? And they're the ones that decide the shape of this line. So what you need to think about is it's not that we have this straight line first and then the dashed line. What we're actually trying to find is these two dashed lines are the ones that are actually defining the shape. Because the these points, the closest to each other, okay? Are the ones that are defining these dashed lines, right? Okay? We need to satisfy this. There must be some things, some points that are equal into one. Not plus one or minus one. Okay? And the W such that these plus one and minus one points are shaped like this is the one that actually goes through them. Okay? So just think about the conditions. I don't exactly know how, I'm not telling you how first, but we want to find the W that we have these support vectors. Things that are actually on these perpendicular lines or parallel lines. So to compute the margin M, we need to compute this distance. It's the distance from the line to the positive support vector so it's this distance, right? And also plus this one. They're equal to each other. Okay? So we know how to compute the distance, right? It's basically the W transpose the point itself plus the B absolute value over the length of the W. This is the D that we have just went through, right? This is also the same for this other point. Okay?

The thing is, remember that this, we have computed W such that these points when you do this is exactly one. So this value is actually exactly one. This value is exactly negative one. Okay? Because we're only talking about these points. We have determined the W such that this happens. Okay? So this is one, this is one. These two are one. So what we essentially have is the margin is what? Two over the length of W. Okay? So what that means is what we want is a line that separates them but also maximizes the margin. What does it mean by the maximizing the margin? How do we maximize the margin? The length of the W should be decreasing. Okay? So why am I talking about this? The W, so this line can be defined with this W or this W or this W. They're all, they only need is the direction. Right? But the magnitude of the W, the length of this is what it's going to determine the the gap. Okay? The gap. So what we want is a same direction, so direction is not going to change. Okay? But we want a W that such that the margin is small gets larger and larger. Meaning the length of this arrow becomes smaller and smaller. Okay?

So our goal is Support Vector Machine is not like an algorithm or something. It's essentially a formulation. It's a formulation. It's like a problem solving formulation. SVM is the following kind of like a mechanism or framework. We want to solve for W. By what I mean by solving for W meaning finding the A, C, and B. Okay? We want to find the parameters, the values that consist of the W, the line. Such that all the all the positive examples, so you see this YI is positive. So think of this as like the like the class. All the red dots which are positive, they have their corresponding classes which are the YI. So each XI has the corresponding YI. Positive ones have positive one YI. Negative ones have negative one YI. Okay? So first condition. All the positive ones should be uh so if this is if X if you do the inner product if it's greater than or equal to one that means this XI is a positive class. If it's greater smaller than equal less than or equal to negative one then it is a negative class. Okay? So we need to separate them. Also we want to actually maximize the margin. We want to draw a line such that this line this dashed line is maximized as much as possible. Okay?

Here's an somewhat some sort of an abstract illustration. So this W let's say has the length three. Okay? See that this see how the the margin is. Right? But what you need to realize is that we always need to have the points that are on this line. So if you have if you draw a W that satisfies this and the length is three that means you're going to be having this line. This separating line. Because you need to have have a shape such that these dashed lines have at least one support vectors. Okay? Now the length has increased. Still separating them but the length has increased. That means this vector has to have these points which are on these lines um and the margin actually got smaller. That means it needs to draw a line such that this gap is small. Going back I need to draw a line such that this gap is three um is um I guess two over three. I want to I need to draw a line such that this margin is two over five. It needs to be constructed this way. Okay? Now what's a better one? This is the case where this margin is two over zero point five. Okay? And this perhaps is the best one that you can find. Okay? Typically there is a solution. There is a one that maximizes this. Okay? So this is the SVM this really is the SVM. The line itself is not an SVM. This is a way to find such line. What kind of line? Separating them with by while maximizing the margin. Okay? So you need to realize that it's still the same line. It's just a matter of how we're finding the line. Okay?

Now um so if the points are somewhat further away then we can also do this. The W has actually gone smaller but then the margin has actually increased. So um well excuse me. Uh another way to look at this. Maximizing the margin like I said is the same as minimizing L2 norm of W. Right? So this is inversely proportional to this. If this increases this goes down. Okay? So we're just going to rewrite it uh just same idea. So maximizing the margin is the same as minimizing this. So we're just going to say we're going to minimize this. So the solution is not going to change. If we do this versus so if we um have this as a condition versus this the W should not be changing. Right? So to simplify this we're going to do this. Now we have some tricks. I want to simplify this formulation even further. So we want to uh simplify the condition one and two. What do I mean by simplifying them? We're going to merge them into one. One equation one one inequality. So W transpose XI plus B greater than equal to positive one for the Xs that are positive which means the YIs are positive. Right? So what we're going to do is multiply both sides by YI. This is positive one. So what happens? This I'm just going to make it disappear. So what we have is YI times this W transpose XI plus B greater than equal to one. Okay? This is identical. Nothing changes. All these XIs are guaranteed to have the YIs that are plus one so we can just rewrite it like this.

Now what about the negative ones? Those are the ones where um if you do this um W transpose XI plus B you have less than or equal to negative one. And they're the ones where the YIs are negative. Now let's do the same thing see what happens. Multiply both sides by YI. Okay? So you have less than or equal to negative one times YI. What is that? Um plus one but also need to realize that the sign needs to be changed. So I guess the sign should have changed um uh should have changed here. So if you do this you have plus one and the sign should be changed. Okay? So what we essentially have is two cases okay positive and negative cases both can be represented by this because you're kind of like switching or conditioning based off of the um the class of the corresponding example. So for both positive and negative classes this is only inequality that you need. You don't need if this is positive if this is negative. We just need to say that okay just multiply by the class itself the value positive one negative one. That's why uh in the support vector machines we're explicitly calling this positive and negative and the YIs the labels we're kind of just um it can be one or zero. It really doesn't matter as long as they are two distinct values then technically should be okay but algorithmically speaking we need the positive XY need to be positive one for this to happen and the negative one for the negative cases for this inequality to be merged as one. Okay? So in other words both conditions have been merged into one. So this is the simplified singular value singular support vector machine. Okay? All that effort um positive negative separating them maximizing the margin can be somewhat reformulated into this. So the solution is going to be the same. Solving for this is identical to solving for the other one. Okay?

Now I'm going to talk about the optimization just a little bit. Um so how do we actually get this number? So this is our SVM itself literally the SVM. One thing I want to talk about is W so this this L2 norm right? What is this sign? Proportional. So this increases this is going to increase monotonically increase. So what I what I have is this is essentially the inner product with itself right? So you have the L2 norm okay? Um L2 norm if L2 norm increases L2 norm squared should also be increasing right? They're all just positive values. And I can rewrite this as the W transpose W. So this turns into a quadratic optimization problem. So what is an optimization? Um good chance that you have not seen this um so optimization is basically a formulation problem solving formulation. Okay? I have a goal which is to minimize something subject to it's like a condition. But I need to while okay whatever solution that I find okay whatever solution that I find I want to find a W that minimizes one over two W transpose W. Okay? This is our objective. But this needs to be done while not violating this condition below which is all the Xs that I have if I multiply by that W that I'm trying to find plus B times YI they all need to be greater than equal to one. So it's like we call this a constraint. Okay? We have the objective function and this is our constraint. I need to find a W that minimizes this while satisfying this. Why is this important? This is just this ensures that the points are separated by whatever solution that I find. So I cannot find a solution if this is violated it's not that is not going to be considered as a solution. Okay? So why is this called a quadratic optimization problem? Because we have a square inside. Depending on the shape or the type of a function inside there are different ways to solve for this. Okay? I'm not going to talk about the methods of which how these are solved. That's a completely different formulation. Okay? That's a completely different thing. So I want you to at least familiarize yourself with this sort of an optimization formulation. Okay? Internally many many um AI uh techniques need to solve for solutions okay like finding something of specific goal are can be formulated and are probably solved using some sort of an optimization problem like this. Okay? This is just a specific case simplified all that stuff that we try to do into just a simple optimization specifically quadratic optimization problem. Okay?

Now suppose some method some solver has actually identified the solution. Once you find um W and and obviously the B such that we can predict the new X so we have once a new thing comes new point comes then we can do a prediction on to a unseen examples. Okay? Um so this is the famous singular value uh SVM um support vector machine. And I want to go a little further um because still not so you up until here is still very interesting the way that we're trying to find this line W and the B. But the support vector machine is actually becomes even more interesting um of the following property. So very interesting property. Property one. The solution W can be computed using the given dataset. In other words I have the XIs and I have many many XIs and YIs okay their corresponding this pair feature and the class. I have many of them. Okay? Now the W can actually be expressed as follows. Sum of all the points so XI times the YI corresponding class so this again remember that this is positive one or negative one depending on the class. Times some alpha I. This alpha I is a value that is greater than equal to zero. Cannot be a negative value. Okay? This is the property. Any W solution that I find whatever solution that I find which is separating the whatever the line that I identified can also be expressed using literally the points and the dataset itself. All the points. I just don't know exactly what alpha I should be but telling you that this is possible. Okay? In other words we don't have to blindly find W from scratch. Instead what we can do is find alphas such that this is a reasonable is a good solution. I do not I may not actually be able to just start from some random W. Okay? Here you don't exactly know where to start. Here you know where to start. You know that it's just some sort of linear combination of these these values. Okay?

Next interesting property. Um alpha Is are greater than zero for the support vectors. Okay? Only the support vectors so the the dashed lines only the points that are on these dashed lines are the ones that have their corresponding alpha Is non-zeros. All the other points their alpha Is are zeros. Okay? So that means that means so this is a this is a truth okay this is a property so has been proven. So what we can do is W is essentially combination of only the support vectors because all the other non-support vectors they're these alpha Is are zero so they just don't count. So WI is a linear combination of alpha Is of the support vectors and only the support vectors. Okay? So in other words all this line that we've been drawing this line can actually be computed using these three points only. We can express this using these three points some sort of linear combination like this. Okay? So we're going to have a new form of support vector machine um which is the following. I'm not even going to say W is A C whatever. I'm just going to say this. Okay? Where the alpha Is are greater than zero for the support vectors. So okay let's see. Computing W gives us uh the B equals um whatever so we can compute this. Our um support vector machine is a function W and B such that we can predict the new X. Now this is predicting a new X. This is a new X. A new point comes and I need to make sure that this is on the correct side either positive or negative. Okay? Based on the sign. I don't exactly care how far this X point is away from this but the sign needs to be correct. Right?

Now instead of expressing this W okay the line equation with the uh the just the vector I'm going to literally just replace this with the linear combination of the support vectors. Just literally replaced. Okay? Then what happens? What you're experiencing right now is we said we want to draw a line such that the signs are correct okay such just that this X is on the right side but what we're essentially doing is when a new X comes we're comparing we're doing the inner product with some whatever constant this is with only the support vectors. So the sign of a new point is determined not by the line but by the support vectors that we have decided. Okay? It's kind of weird. We're trying to find the linear classifier but we're actually so that we can identify the sign of a new points but essentially what we ended up doing in this new form of SVM is comparing with the support vectors somehow and then finding uh checking out the sign. Okay? This new form of SVM entirely consists of As and support vectors. We do not actually compute the W. We just have these values and we already know what these are. Okay? We're just need to find some support vectors. We don't exactly know which ones are the support vectors okay but they exist. So we do not actually need to solve for W. Instead we have many inner products. We have many many inner products between the given point and the support vectors. Okay? This equals to the number of support vectors right? So um just a uh visualization of what's actually happening. So what does it mean intuitively? Okay? Remember the E support vector XI is associated with its label. Okay? So all they all have positive one these have positive ones and these have negative ones. Okay? The inner product between these support vectors and the new X this is a new X okay is large if it's close. Okay? In other words if this neg this point inner product with this is large if they're closer to each other. Okay? It's small if it's farther away from each other. So what you're essentially doing is okay which side am I on? I just need to comp compare myself with the support vectors and then see if I'm closer to the negative support vectors or the positive support vectors. That's kind of what's happening. Okay? We compare the new point to the support vectors and then if this F of X whatever we compute okay is uh about basically checks how close X is to the support vectors and decide based on its label. So I compute the distances and then kind of do like a soft voting. Okay? I'm closer to the negative ones weighted by this alphas such that if I end up this summation end up being positive then I'm positive. End up being negative then I'm negative. Right? So I'm not explicitly computing the equation of this line and I do not need to do that. Okay?

Now there's an issue there's a very very big issue with this. What if what we want to divide separate is not linearly separable? So when you say linearly separable it means it is perfectly separable there's a line that linear line that separates them perfectly. Suppose this is a one-dimensional space. What's the line so and these circles are the support vectors of this one-dimensional feature space. This imagine this is like a center line and these are like the dashed lines. Okay? What about this? Can we actually linearly basically find a point such that if you acting as like a line 1D line such that it separates them perfectly? Not possible. Okay? This is non-linearly um separable case. Okay? What we can do is mapping mapping means um it's like a function so turn them into a different some higher dimensional values okay we can map this to a higher dimensional space. So what used to be a one-dimensional space turned into a um two-dimensional space. Okay? So features you think that uh so what do you think has happened? This is our original feature. Second feature we just ran we just decided that okay I'm just going to make a second feature. That second feature is the square of the first feature. Then we have this sort of a parabola. Right? Now all this one-dimensional feature now turned into a two-dimensional feature. That means the line is actually also going to be a this um physical line that we can draw and at this point we can draw a line that separates them. Not in this one-dimensional space but in this two-dimensional higher dimensional space. This is the trick that we're going to be doing. In a so we need our SVM to be a non-linear SVM. We need to be able to separate features points that are non-linearly separable. So the idea is the following. The original input space can always be mapped to some higher dimensional feature space. In this case was also this is a two-dimensional space turned into a three-dimensional space. This is the line that we need but we cannot do that we need a separating line. But in this higher dimensional space we have a line which is actually a plane right? We have this hyperplane and this is like a line in the 3D space. So the physical line that we're seeing is straight line that we used to be seeing in two-dimensional space. In three-dimensional space the line is essentially a plane. So I guess this line can also be called a hyperplane in the two-dimensional space. This point can also be a hyperplane in this one-dimensional space. Okay? This is a physical 3D space um and this hyperplane can now separate the red one and the blue ones. Okay?

So this is our trick. I want to somehow have this um I believe this is Phi okay uh I believe this this is Phi. Okay? This is a capital Phi and then lower case Phi. So um I want to have this function such that now feature is in higher dimensional space. So this example that I showed you. I just decided that my feature X is now going to be X comma X squared. Okay? Um so in that case what do we need to do? Uh we've always been doing the inner product with the different stuff. Right? But not just the original Xs uh but the Ys as well. Um so just do the inner product uh instead of doing this in this original space just the X now we're going to do this in this hyper uh higher dimensional space. Which case is the X X squared and then Y Y squared. Um and this turns into this. Right? This times this and this times this because this treat this as a vector right? So what we're going to be doing in this case what we're seeing here is a kernel. Standing for K. So what I'm trying to show you is you can think of this as an inner product of two vectors okay but you can also think of this as just XY plus X squared times Y squared. Do I actually need to do the inner product? No just you have the X X squared Y Y squared just skip this inner product step just think of this as a new function. Okay? In other words if I have an X and the Y X turns into X X squared Y turns into Y Y squared doing the inner product getting this is just the same as okay I have the X I have the Y I don't really care how this happened I'm just going to set up this function such that the output is going to be X times Y plus X squared Y Y squared. I'm just blindly thinking of this some black box function. Okay? We're going to call this a kernel. Okay? I'm going to show you why this is useful. Okay?

The form the formulation that we saw initially right was this I guess more intuitive minimizing the uh W meaning maximizing the margin subject to the separating um the discrimination. This is called the primal for like the main form of the SVM. Okay? Primal form formulation primal problem of SVM. We can change this into uh and these other form okay looking really weird is the dual form. Okay? Solving for W in this primal form okay is going to give me some W star. Star typically means it's an optimal solution it's a solution that we find. Okay? This is the same as finding alphas. Okay? I don't even need to find Xs they're just given. This is the same as finding all these alphas that are non-zeros. Okay? You can go from here to here and also here to here. Right? So I can either directly find W or in this dual form just don't directly find W just look for alphas. Okay? The reason why I'm mentioning I'm not going to so these are remember these constraints um not going to talk about this too much. The point is that when we have the um the higher dimensional mapping issue the Xs are now going to be Phi XIs whatever this function is. Okay? So what's happening is what we're doing is W is now also going to be in this some higher dimensional space and I'm going to be doing inner products of some in some higher dimensional space. Okay? Instead of W transpose XI I have the W transpose Phi of XI whatever this Phi is. Okay? At least going to be some high dimension higher than this original XI. Now that also happens in the dual form. Okay? Now but when does it happen? When is the inner product happening? Where are the Xs? Here are the Xs. There's there are many many inner inner products of the Xs. That means we have the many many inner products of the Phi of the Xs. Okay? But this what is this? This is similar to the kernel thing that I've shown you. We're going to be doing many inner products of the outputs of this mapping. Okay? But as I showed you I don't want to actually do the inner product I do not actually want to have like 10 dimensional inner product. I just going to compute it and then see what the outcome is. It can be simplified into something similar to this then instead of actually turning them into vectors and doing the inner product I'm just going to create set up a function that just directly computes the output. Okay? This process can be more computationally burdening because the dimensions getting larger and larger but we can make that process super simple by setting up this kernel function. Okay? Um it's 12:50 so I'm going to stop here. Um I'm going to uh see I'm going to be seeing you on Thursday. Um thank you.