Okay, uh, homework two is due today at 11:59 p.m. and I’m gonna release a new one and forwards. Uh, this is where I left off last time. Gonna do a quick review and move on to the next set of slides. So what we’re trying to do is we have edges and we’re trying to literally find a function, line function that goes through that line or set of, um, edge pixels. Turns into a, uh, line fitting problem. So in our cases, we have these edges, we believe they’re all kind of facing this way and I want to put a line that goes through them. Okay? Because we believe that if you have a set of points and they’re all edges facing the same direction then that must be a line so I want to fit a line through that.

How do we fit a line? Um, gonna just consider them as set of points and, uh, have a line equation determined by two parameters. Such a parameterized function of M and B and that we’re gonna be, uh... So we’re gonna be thinking of this line as given a set of Xs based off of this M and B and, um, it’s going to output Y so that makes this, um, line, I guess, shape. So, what we want to do is for all the points that we have, so these are... this is a data point. Okay? All these points, so this would be the output of the line equation. In other words, um, if we put plug in the whatever the X that I have here, let’s say call this X1, then this output would be a point on that line. Okay? Given the next X... X2, it would be, so suppose this is the X2 and Y2. This formula is gonna give me the point on that line. Okay? So this is the points on the line corresponding to their cross... um, their Xs and the Y_i is the actual point. Okay? So I want to find what I’m doing is subtract these two values, this Y_i, um, I’m gonna call this like a like a I guess a prediction. I’m just gonna call this maybe a Y hat or something. Put a hat on it. So this would be a point on the line, Y hat, uh, Y hat. This would be my true Y_i, I’m just taking this, um, the difference, square them and I’m gonna be doing that for all the points. Okay?

So this is, uh, also called the sum of the squared differences. Okay? SSD. Um, Y is the fitting line, Y is the data, um, and I also showed you this, um, matrix formulation. Right? I’m gonna again, gonna quickly go through this. We are essentially summing over a set of all possible combinations. So put have let’s say we have, um, small n, n number of Xs. So we have n... X1 through Xn. And gonna be doing computing this mx_i + b. How can we do that? Can actually formulate this as a product of two vectors. Okay? Right? So mx_i + m +... x_i times m + 1 times b. So I, uh, literally all I did in the first step is just rewrite this as a product of two vectors. Okay? Everything else is the same. And then instead of having this summation sign, I’m going to first stack all these possibilities, okay, like this, and then, uh, this is not gonna change. It’s a com... there are no M1s and M2s. There’s just only only one M and one B, right? Just talking about a single line formula. So this is gonna give me a mx1 + b. Next row, mx2 + b. All the way down to mxn + b. What is this? It... this is a vector, right? Because each value is just a scalar. Okay?

So, and then I have a corresponding Y_is. So essentially if I subtract these two, then that what I have is mx1 + b - y1. mx2 + b - y2. Again, this is a vector. Vector of what? Just stack of all these values from top to bottom for all ns, okay, n number of those equations. Okay? And then I have two large bars next to them on both sides indicating this is an L2 square, uh, L2 norm. In other words, whatever value that I have, I’m going to be squaring them, okay, every single entry, okay, mx1 + b - y1, I’m going to square them and I’m going to be summing them over all other mx_i + b - y_is. Okay? That is the definition of this L2 norm. Okay? But I’m taking the square on top of that. In other words, I’m taking the square of the square root. So this square root is gone. All I have is the sum of these squares of the differences which is literally the same thing. Okay? This squaring the L2 norm to derive such squared, um, sum of the squared differences or sum of the squares in general is a pretty common, um, common action. Okay? So just gonna be putting... just gonna be, uh, putting two as much as I can.

I can design this matrix A. Right? How do I design it? I have a set of the data points given to me. So I have X1 through Xn. All I’m gonna do is just set like a... it’s like a template. Okay? I’m just gonna plug in the X1s through Xns. I’m gonna call that matrix and the second column is gonna be just full of ones. Just always gonna be fixed as ones. Okay? And this matrix is A. This vector is P. It’s something that we’re trying to find. Okay? This is given to us. This is not. This Y1 through Yn, this vector, okay, Y_i, is also given to us. Okay? So we can design A and Y and then formulate this but we don’t exactly know what the P is. Solving for P is our goal. Okay? I’m gonna solve... um, but we’re gonna solve it in a way that we have a common goal, right? We want to find M and B such that when we compute this, this E, error is minimized. Sum of the squared differences error is minimized. Okay? So we have like a... it’s like a condition. Sol... solving for this that minimizes this. It’s not just any random X... Ms and Bs, right? So, and then such solver, um, we can easily do that by doing the inverse operation. Okay? I’m not gonna talk too much about it, um, but there are just ways to do this. Okay?

So, uh, the issue with this simple linear fitting, least squares fitting method is that it is very susceptible to outliers. What do I mean by outliers? Something that kind of pops off. Okay? Maybe this is real, maybe this is not. Okay? But it does not certainly follow the rest of the group. It’s better to kind of ignore this but our formula that we just computed, it treats everything equally. Okay? We don’t exactly know if there’s an outlier, there’s no way to actually, um, account for that. So it’s just gonna try to do as much as possible to also satisfy this. So instead of... if suppose there’s an outlier here, this is completely ignoring that outlier. Okay? But satisfying the... the rest of the points, um, pretty highly. But if if this function is trying to not account... um, try very hard to account for this outlier, it’ll make this one happy. Happier. Okay? But, you know, the rest of the points are gonna be less happy about it. Right? Which one’s better? Um, depends. But the reason why they’re call... called outliers is that there are many factors that we don’t want to actually take them seriously. Okay? If this is a real point then we should be seeing many of... many of these other points. Okay? Outliers are typic... things that are kind of out of the distribution. Uncommon. Okay?

So what we’re going to do is following the majority. We’re gonna try to deal with the outliers in a way ignoring them by taking the opinions of the the all the points and start doing this voting process. So voting is a general technique where, uh, we let the features vote for all models that are compatible with it. So we’re gonna have each data whatever, um, features to really just start voting. So cycle through the features, cast votes for the parameters, look for the model parameters that receive a lot of votes. So, basically, we’re not... we’re not aiming to satisfy everyone. We’re trying to satisfy the highest number of people or the points or data as possible. Okay? So this sup... um, is going to... is satisfying all these points. Suppose there’s an outlier here. This is... this one is not satisfied but this one is happy about it. All of them. We start doing this. This one may be is happier but we’re now gonna start losing all the other points. Okay? So. Um, noise and clutter and basically outliers, they will also cast votes but typically their votes should be inconsistent with the majority of good features. So we’re gonna still ask for their opinion. We’re gonna still take votes from them. We’re gonna treat them equally. But eventually the decision is going to be based off of the majority. Okay? And the majority this kind of depends. It may not be over 50 points, uh, 50 percent. Just talking about the most number of, um, features. Okay?

So there are typically two common techniques. Um, Hough transform is also... is what we’re gonna talk about specifically. Uh, RANSAC is, uh... so these are not just vision specific techniques. These are ways to, um, account for data points, some sort of fitting process and doing the voting. So these are both, um, in a way voting techniques. So we’re gonna specifically talk about this in this class but this is also a pretty simple process that if I have time I’ll just quickly just, um, mention this. But this is also extremely important topic. Um, that is not very difficult to understand. Okay? I mean it just says random sample consensus. Uh, it just means that I’m going to randomly sample, um... so I... let me just talk about this maybe. Um. So what I’m gonna do is I have a bunch of points. So these are my points. Um, let me draw better points. These are my points. Okay? Um, and some outliers. I’m going to first randomly sample. Okay? So how many points do I have? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. I have eight points. Let’s say I’m gonna sample, randomly sample and randomly pick four points. Okay? Suppose I picked this one, this one, this one, and this one. Okay? Only using those points, let me try to fit a line. Which line? I don’t know. Maybe line’s gonna go through something like this. Okay? And then once that line has been, um, computed, I’m gonna ask for everyone’s opinion. So first I’m going to choose a s... randomly choose a subset of the entire data points, compute the formula, and then go back and ask everyone and then see how that works. Okay?

So this is going to take votes from all these points. Okay? It’s not really a good one. Okay? So and then next time let’s say I end up picking these four points. And I fit a line through that. Okay? And then based off of this new line, I ask other points. Okay? And then compute that error. Whatever the error is. It can be SSD. Okay? In this case, okay, um, there is a chance that this SSD may not be actually better than the other one but in terms of the voting process, it’s satisfying more points. So this RANSAC is really talk about the consensus. Right? So how many of the points are super satisfied? More points are super satisfied with this line than this line. This line is only going to satisfy maybe just two. This one is going to satisfy one, two, three, four, five, six. Okay? We’re gonna be doing this many, many times. And then try to randomly sub... sample a subset of the points and then find the parameters like M and B for the line equation and then ask everyone’s opinion. Taking the consensus. Okay? And then eventually we’re gonna have some standard saying that, okay, um, we’re gonna try all these random, um, random lines and then keep track of the consensus, everyone’s opinion, and then pick the one that, um, matches the consensus the best. Okay? RANSAC. Um, very simple iterative method. Iterative means you keep on doing this multiple times until you’re satisfied. Okay?

But Hough transform is not as easy to just explain like I just said. That’s more like an algorithm, algorithmic pipeline. This is not. Um. So. Finding lines in image in Hough space. What is a Hough space? Hough space is also... you can think of this as a parameter space. So in the image space, what do we have? We have the X and Y locations of the pixels. And our goal is to find the line equation like this. And how do I parametrize them? I’m parametrizing the line equation with this M and B. Okay? X and Ys are the points on in this image space. Okay? So these are the values that I’m trying to find. Points are based off the X and Y coordinates. Now, in the image space, it’s based off of the X axis and the Y axis. In the Hough space, okay, it’s based off of the M and B. Okay? X and Y don’t necessarily always have to be this vertical horizontal point coordinate systems. They’re just variables. Right? So I can also have a parameter space where the each axis is for each parameter. What... how many parameters do we have? We have M and B. So all these points are going from let’s say M is zero... equals zero to whatever M value is. B equals to zero to whatever the B value is. So if I pick a point here, okay, so a line in the image co... line in the image, this line, so what do you mean by a line? It means it is characterized by M and B. So whatever specific M, let’s say M is like three or something and B is two. Okay? So this is the M, this is the B. These two points, these two variables, M and B is representing a line in this image space. This corresponds to a point in the Hough space. A point in the Hough space. Why is it a point? Because we just have a single M and a single B that represents this single line. Okay? In the Hough space, this corresponds to three and then this corresponds to two. Okay?

So in this Hough space what happens is if I pick some point, that’s gonna correspond to some M and some B, right? And but so it’s... it’s gonna be let’s say B... M0 and then B0. This is going to, if you go back to the image space, this is going to correspond to some some line, whatever that line is, that has the equation Y equals M0 X plus B0. Okay? So there’s like a mapping thing going on. Okay? I can represent a line using this formula in the line... uh, image space that actually looks like that, you know, 2D line that we know, 1D line that we know. But that also corresponds to a point in the Hough space. Okay? The opposite is also true. Um, so a point in the image space is going to correspond to a line in this other Hough space. Okay? So there’s a point in the image space. It’s just X0 and then Y0. Okay? This corresponds to a point in the Hough space. So... a line in the Hough space. So so now there’s a line equation in the Hough space itself. Okay? What is it parametrized by? The X value in the corresponding space and the Y value in the corresponding space. So in this case, the the value... the variable that we can freely kind of try out is ins... uh, instead of X and Y in this space... in this case, it’s M and B. So these are the variables that we can try. These are fixed. This exactly re... resembles a line equation. Right? So what this basically tells us is, um, given a point in here, if I go through this this line, if I follow through this line, what is it? It’s just a different combinations of Ms and Bs, right? Here’s an M and B here. M and B here. There’s another M and B. Whatever is on this line, all these Ms and Bs, okay, that’s going to correspond to... so each M and B is going to correspond to some line in this image space, right? So this is going to maybe create this line. This M and B is gonna create this line. This M is... M and B is gonna create this line. It’s gonna be creating some line. But these lines are created such that every single one of them go through this point. Okay?

Why does that have to be true? It has to be true, right? Because this equation has the M and B. This equality has to hold. All these lines that I can form in this space have to satisfy, have to match, you know, have to be equal to, um, have to be equal involving this exact one point. So all the Ms and Bs that are on this line, if I go back and draw them, it’s going to be a line, very, very freely rotating line, okay, depending on what the M and Bs are. Okay? So if I move from here to here it’s gonna start rotating maybe. But every single one of them has to make this single point happy. X0 and Y0. And that means all of them have to be on this line... because this line satisfies, makes this point happy, all this... all these lines that go through them meaning that every single one of them has to hold... um, contain this point. So there’s a mapping. Okay? So the, um... what... okay. Do I show anything? Um. Why do... what are the line parameters for the line that contains both X0 Y0 and, um... Oh, now, um, here’s why we’re talking about this. What is fitting? Fitting the line means drawing a line that contains as many points as possible. Okay? So the question that I have here is that what are the line parameters, so what is the M and B, such that that line contains both X0 Y0 and X1 Y1? Okay? I have... I’m just gonna read through this. It is when the line that passes through both X0 Y0 and X1 Y1 are the same. So in other words, there must be some line that goes through this red one. There must be some line that goes through the purple one. Okay? There’s a line that goes through both of them, that’s when this is satisfied. Okay? In other words, suppose this is a purple... red line, this is a purple line. Okay? It is when both of them... I’m gonna be rotating the red line this way, I’m gonna be rotating the purple line this way. It is when they actually match. Okay? Because that is when that those two lines contain both the red and the black... uh, the purple purple dots. So zeros and ones. So it is actually the... in this case, so remember that this line, okay, this point is going to be represented in what way? It’s gonna correspond to some M and B here. Okay? All these... um, no, it’s going to correspond to some line here. This point is also going to correspond to some line in this space maybe maybe, I don’t know, maybe like this. Okay?

And I said if I follow these lines in this Hough space, I’m going to be rotating this line in the image space. Okay? So this is the, uh, red line that this is the purple line. I’m going to be following this line and then start rotating the this line... the red line. And then I’m going to follow this purple line and then start rotating this one. There must be, okay, not not always, um, there must be a point where they intersect. Unless they’re parallel. Okay? There... this is the point where I follow the red line in the Hough space and when I follow the purple line in the Hough space, okay, this is the exactly the point where this rotating line stops here containing also this purple line. And then I just keep on rotating this way and it’s going to, you know, rotate it in this purple... image space, um, with the purple line as axis and it’s going to be stopping at here. So basically what I’m trying to tell you, do I have more... okay. I actually draw this like this. Okay. Cool. You see when it, um, it crosses this point. Okay? That is when the line actually contains that point. So right here. Right? So what do I actually have to do? All I have to do is to find a line, single line that goes through these two points, is when the lines in the Hough space intersect. If I pick this M and B, it’s the one that satisfies, right, the purple dot and the red dot. That’s where the intersection is. Okay? This is what we’re gonna be... this is the key idea of the Hough space. When they intersect in this, whenever they intersect in this Hough space is when interesting thing happens. Okay? So we’re gonna expand this just expand this for four lines... four dots. Okay?

Um, gonna be doing the same thing. But you’re gonna start realizing that, okay, unless they’re perfectly collinear... what does it mean by collinear? Everything’s exactly on single line. Okay? Um, when that happens obviously there is going to be a single intersection. Just perfect intersection. But in practice that does not really happen. Okay? They’re roughly collinear but not exactly. That means there is not going to be a perfect perfect intersection where everything exactly goes through that single point. Okay? If there’s a single M and B that match... that satisfies all these lines, that means there is a single line that satisfies all these points perfectly. Not possible. So they’re roughly gonna roughly gonna, uh, intersect within a, you know, some close, uh, distance. So red is going to go through this, this, and this line. So I just... um, I try my best to, um, make sense out of this. Um, so this red line, um, this dot is going... uh, cross the, uh, red line. It’s going to intersect with yellow, purple, and green in that order. Okay? And this actually true in the image space as well. I’m rotating and it’s going to intersect with the yellow one and then the purple one and then the green one. Okay? So almost yellow, purple, green. Okay? It’s just visualization. That that’s all there is. Um, this line is just fixed. Now yellow one is going to go, uh, intersect with red first and then purple and green. So red, purple. And then the purple, gonna happen almost at the same time so it’s kind of getting harder to actually, um, acknowledge it. And the green one is gonna... the last thing I’m gonna do. Maybe maybe red, uh, if you look at it closely. Okay? And then yellow and purple very quickly. So what do I need to do? I just need to find a point where all of them almost all these points are all very, very close together. Okay?

It’s not perfect. So what we’re going to do is kind of break it down into grids and bins and then just take, you know, roughly break it down into space different, uh, like different areas, smaller areas, and then start counting the number of intersections that’s happening. Okay? These bin sizes is up to you. If you really want a perfect perfect line, okay, these bins are gonna be smaller and smaller. So you’re gonna be looking at, uh, you’re not going to, um, basically consider a point... so suppose I have a really large bin like this. So whenever they’re all within the same bin, whenever all these different intersections, not while not perfect, are within the same bin, we’re gonna say, okay, um, everything belongs to this bin. This is useful when the lines are... when the points are very far apart. Okay? So in this case, we can, you know, draw different lines. We can draw different lines but then the, um, the one that actually satisfy them, we gotta be very liberal about it. Okay? Um, conversely, if this is very, very tight, uh, that means, um, what could... we’re not only going to consider, um, them to be of the same line if they’re really, really perfectly lining up with each other. If I break it this down, so if it’s kind of hard for me to actually, um, take a look at it. Suppose, okay, suppose I have... this is what you’re actually... suppose this is what you’re actually seeing. Okay? I have three lines. If this is a single bin and they all belong to the same bin, then I’m just gonna say, okay, all these all these lines are basically the same. I’m just going to pick this corresponding M and B and say, okay, there’s one line going through all these three points. If my grid is much smaller, like like this, that means there is one count here and then there’s like two count here. That means this line is not considering this intersection. It’s only considering these two intersections. So that means in the image space, it’s not going to be a line that goes through all all three of them. It’s only going to be a line that goes through two of them. Is it true? One, two.

So yeah. We’re gonna... this is where the voting happens. Okay? So it’s kind of... it was difficult to acknowledge where the voting process happens. Oh, this is the exact collinear case. Not gonna happen in practice. So we’re going to roughly start counting potential ones. So what that means is this is basically the same as breaking it down into different Ms and Bs bins. Okay? So these are some range... it’s it’s a some range of these. Okay? It’s not exactly a single B... uh, single intersection. This is a some range of M. I think the axes have been switched. Um. It’s a some range of M. But whatever they’re, you know, even if it’s not perfect, if they’re roughly within this range of M and B, I’m just gonna say, okay, um, we’re gonna just take a representative one. Maybe the center of this grid. Okay? Um, so the voting is, uh, based off of this bin. We’re counting them. Counting is literally voting. Right? So after we try all different types of Ms and Bs, we’re going to pick the bin with the highest number of intersection. So largest, uh, largest count. Okay? If I take that M and B and then draw it here, it’s going to be the one that satisfies them all these points the most. Okay?

Um, but there is a small problem with this, um, M and B space... the slope and intercept formula. Okay? Uh, it’s gonna be very difficult to draw a vertical line because that’s an infinite slope. That means M is gonna be in infinity. That means we can never draw that line unless the M goes all the way down to the infinity. Okay? Um, so what we’re gonna do is... it says unbounded parameter domains meaning you can reach all the way up to the infinity and it still needs to make sense. The alternative is to use the polar representation. So there’s a different way to represent a line using the polar representation. Looks like this. First determines the angle theta. Second determines the orthogonal distance. So this is the right angle, 90 degrees. I’m going to... once the angle has been decided, I’m going to push it away or pull it, whatever, um, from the origin. And then this rho, so these are, um, the Roman numeral. So this is, uh, this is a theta. Okay? And then the whatever this looks like a P, it’s actually a a R in the... you gotta be thinking of theta as like a T in the alphabet and then this character as rho, this is actually like an R in the... the Roman numeral. Okay? It’s not a P. Um. P is actually, um, pi is actually the the P in the Roman numeral. Okay? Um. So this is not a P. It’s a rho. Um. Anyways. So using this distance rho is going to determine the location of this line. Okay? So still it’s just a different way to parametrize, represent this line. Okay? Still involving two parameters. Theta and rho. So what we’re gonna be doing is the same thing. Instead of having going from image space XY to MB space, we’re gonna go from XY to theta rho space. Okay?

Um. Okay. Do I show anything? Um. Why do... what are the line parameters for the line that contains both X0 Y0 and, um... Oh, now, um, here’s why we’re talking about this. What is fitting? Fitting the line means drawing a line that contains as many points as possible. Okay? So the question that I have here is that what are the line parameters, so what is the M and B, such that that line contains both X0 Y0 and X1 Y1? Okay? I have... I’m just gonna read through this. It is when the line that passes through both X0 Y0 and X1 Y1 are the same. So in other words, there must be some line that goes through this red one. There must be some line that goes through the purple one. Okay? There’s a line that goes through both of them, that’s when this is satisfied. Okay? In other words, suppose this is a purple... red line, this is a purple line. Okay? It is when both of them... I’m gonna be rotating the red line this way, I’m gonna be rotating the purple line this way. It is when they actually match. Okay? Because that is when that those two lines contain both the red and the black... uh, the purple purple dots. So zeros and ones. So it is actually the... in this case, so remember that this line, okay, this point is going to be represented in what way? It’s gonna correspond to some M and B here. Okay? All these... um, no, it’s going to correspond to some line here. This point is also going to correspond to some line in this space maybe maybe, I don’t know, maybe like this. Okay?

And I said if I follow these lines in this Hough space, I’m going to be rotating this line in the image space. Okay? So this is the, uh, red line that this is the purple line. I’m going to be following this line and then start rotating the this line... the red line. And then I’m going to follow this purple line and then start rotating this one. There must be, okay, not not always, um, there must be a point where they intersect. Unless they’re parallel. Okay? There... this is the point where I follow the red line in the Hough space and when I follow the purple line in the Hough space, okay, this is the exactly the point where this rotating line stops here containing also this purple line. And then I just keep on rotating this way and it’s going to, you know, rotate it in this purple... image space, um, with the purple line as axis and it’s going to be stopping at here. So basically what I’m trying to tell you, do I have more... okay. I actually draw this like this. Okay. Cool. You see when it, um, it crosses this point. Okay? That is when the line actually contains that point. So right here. Right? So what do I actually have to do? All I have to do is to find a line, single line that goes through these two points, is when the lines in the Hough space intersect. If I pick this M and B, it’s the one that satisfies, right, the purple dot and the red dot. That’s where the intersection is. Okay? This is what we’re gonna be... this is the key idea of the Hough space. When they intersect in this, whenever they intersect in this Hough space is when interesting thing happens. Okay? So we’re gonna expand this just expand this for four lines... four dots. Okay?

Um, gonna be doing the same thing. But you’re gonna start realizing that, okay, unless they’re perfectly collinear... what does it mean by collinear? Everything’s exactly on single line. Okay? Um, when that happens obviously there is going to be a single intersection. Just perfect intersection. But in practice that does not really happen. Okay? They’re roughly collinear but not exactly. That means there is not going to be a perfect perfect intersection where everything exactly goes through that single point. Okay? If there’s a single M and B that match... that satisfies all these lines, that means there is a single line that satisfies all these points perfectly. Not possible. So they’re roughly gonna roughly gonna, uh, intersect within a, you know, some close, uh, distance. So red is going to go through this, this, and this line. So I just... um, I try my best to, um, make sense out of this. Um, so this red line, um, this dot is going... uh, cross the, uh, red line. It’s going to intersect with yellow, purple, and green in that order. Okay? And this actually true in the image space as well. I’m rotating and it’s going to intersect with the yellow one and then the purple one and then the green one. Okay? So almost yellow, purple, green. Okay? It’s just visualization. That that’s all there is. Um, this line is just fixed. Now yellow one is going to go, uh, intersect with red first and then purple and green. So red, purple. And then the purple, gonna happen almost at the same time so it’s kind of getting harder to actually, um, acknowledge it. And the green one is gonna... the last thing I’m gonna do. Maybe maybe red, uh, if you look at it closely. Okay? And then yellow and purple very quickly. So what do I need to do? I just need to find a point where all of them almost all these points are all very, very close together. Okay?

It’s not perfect. So what we’re going to do is kind of break it down into grids and bins and then just take, you know, roughly break it down into space different, uh, like different areas, smaller areas, and then start counting the number of intersections that’s happening. Okay? These bin sizes is up to you. If you really want a perfect perfect line, okay, these bins are gonna be smaller and smaller. So you’re gonna be looking at, uh, you’re not going to, um, basically consider a point... so suppose I have a really large bin like this. So whenever they’re all within the same bin, whenever all these different intersections, not while not perfect, are within the same bin, we’re gonna say, okay, um, everything belongs to this bin. This is useful when the lines are... when the points are very far apart. Okay? So in this case, we can, you know, draw different lines. We can draw different lines but then the, um, the one that actually satisfy them, we gotta be very liberal about it. Okay? Um, conversely, if this is very, very tight, uh, that means, um, what could... we’re not only going to consider, um, them to be of the same line if they’re really, really perfectly lining up with each other. If I break it this down, so if it’s kind of hard for me to actually, um, take a look at it. Suppose, okay, suppose I have... this is what you’re actually... suppose this is what you’re actually seeing. Okay? I have three lines. If this is a single bin and they all belong to the same bin, then I’m just gonna say, okay, all these all these lines are basically the same. I’m just going to pick this corresponding M and B and say, okay, there’s one line going through all these three points. If my grid is much smaller, like like this, that means there is one count here and then there’s like two count here. That means this line is not considering this intersection. It’s only considering these two intersections. So that means in the image space, it’s not going to be a line that goes through all all three of them. It’s only going to be a line that goes through two of them. Is it true? One, two.

So yeah. We’re gonna... this is where the voting happens. Okay? So it’s kind of... it was difficult to acknowledge where the voting process happens. Oh, this is the exact collinear case. Not gonna happen in practice. So we’re going to roughly start counting potential ones. So what that means is this is basically the same as breaking it down into different Ms and Bs bins. Okay? So these are some range... it’s it’s a some range of these. Okay? It’s not exactly a single B... uh, single intersection. This is a some range of M. I think the axes have been switched. Um. It’s a some range of M. But whatever they’re, you know, even if it’s not perfect, if they’re roughly within this range of M and B, I’m just gonna say, okay, um, we’re gonna just take a representative one. Maybe the center of this grid. Okay? Um, so the voting is, uh, based off of this bin. We’re counting them. Counting is literally voting. Right? So after we try all different types of Ms and Bs, we’re going to pick the bin with the highest number of intersection. So largest, uh, largest count. Okay? If I take that M and B and then draw it here, it’s going to be the one that satisfies them all these points the most. Okay?

Um, but there is a small problem with this, um, M and B space... the slope and intercept formula. Okay? Uh, it’s gonna be very difficult to draw a vertical line because that’s an infinite slope. That means M is gonna be in infinity. That means we can never draw that line unless the M goes all the way down to the infinity. Okay? Um, so what we’re gonna do is... it says unbounded parameter domains meaning you can reach all the way up to the infinity and it still needs to make sense. The alternative is to use the polar representation. So there’s a different way to represent a line using the polar representation. Looks like this. First determines the angle theta. Second determines the orthogonal distance. So this is the right angle, 90 degrees. I’m going to... once the angle has been decided, I’m going to push it away or pull it, whatever, um, from the origin. And then this rho, so these are, um, the Roman numeral. So this is, uh, this is a theta. Okay? And then the whatever this looks like a P, it’s actually a a R in the... you gotta be thinking of theta as like a T in the alphabet and then this character as rho, this is actually like an R in the... the Roman numeral. Okay? It’s not a P. Um. P is actually, um, pi is actually the the P in the Roman numeral. Okay? Um. So this is not a P. It’s a rho. Um. Anyways. So using this distance rho is going to determine the location of this line. Okay? So still it’s just a different way to parametrize, represent this line. Okay? Still involving two parameters. Theta and rho. So what we’re gonna be doing is the same thing. Instead of having going from image space XY to MB space, we’re gonna go from XY to theta rho space. Okay?

The difference is that when we draw a... a line in the... a point in the X... XY space, image space, is is not a straight line in the Hough space. It’s going to correspond to this sine wave, also called the sinusoid. Let’s see if this makes sense. So this is the angle. So if I go this way, it means I’m rotating more and more and more and more, um, counterclockwise. Okay? This rho is going to determine how far this point, uh, is, how how long, uh, um, how the, I guess the length of this line. So this red point is when the rho is the maximum and the theta is the smallest. So this this theta corresponds to this angle. This rho corresponds to this value. Okay? Now if I rotate this, you know, we’re we’re rotating, um, we’re just trying to compute the, uh, line formula for all possible lines going through that point. Right? So if you look at the yellow line, okay, this has a higher angle, higher theta, so it goes to the right. And then look at the rho. Rho actually has gotten smaller. Okay? Compared to the previous rho, this rho is now smaller. It goes down. Okay? Green one. It rotates even more. Rho got even smaller. Okay? But it’s not like a linear drop. It gradually, um, it drops the fastest and then it kind of goes back up. When does it go back up? So this blue line. The theta is the lar... is very large. And then this, um, rho is actually very, very small. Eventually the rho actually has to go through, uh, has to go through zero. So eventually it’s going to reach the minimum value basically when the the line goes through the origin. And then when the line starts rotating more and more, in other words, as we go through increase the theta, rotating more rotating more and more, it’s going to start increasing again. Right? Gonna keep on getting larger, larger and larger and larger until and goes down and then goes up and goes down. Okay? But, uh, in practice, uh, the theta is, uh, we can limit the bound of the data. We can go from theta, um, zero to two pi or pi. Okay? So it’s gonna stop at some point. The point is that it actually follows this shape. But to us, it doesn’t matter what this shape is. All we care about is the intersect. Okay? The intercept of the the the intersection of these lines is what we care about. So we have two points. Overlap these sinusoids. Identify intersections. This this intersection is probably a line that goes through both of them. It has to be. This intersection is another way to represent the line that goes through them. These are all different lines. Maybe this is, um, when you, uh, so yeah. So it’s not really a good representation. The point is that, um, we’re going to be doing the same thing. Instead of having straight lines, we’re going to have these sinusoids. Okay?

So we’re going to be... we have this H standing for the Hough space. You can think of this as an accumulating matrix. Okay? We have these things divided. The theta, let’s say goes from, um, I’m gonna let’s say, uh, I’m gonna just start using degrees just for the convenience. Maybe it goes all the way up to the 180 degrees. Um, how many bins are there? 10 bins. That means it’s within this range, it’s from zero to 18 degrees. From here to here, it’s, um, 19 to, I don’t know, 18 or 19 to 36. So you gotta be realizing that we gotta be breaking the theta down, the parameter down into some, um, discretized spaces, bins. Same thing for the rho as well. It’s up to us to determine the sizes of these bins. Okay? So let’s go through the the pseudo code for each edge point. So what do we call them an edge point? Because we’re interested in connecting edges to see if that forms a line. So in the X and Y space. For each point. What we’re gonna do is for theta from zero to 180. Okay? Um, maybe we just just increase it by, um, one or something if it’s not continuous. What we can do is we have the we have the X, we have the Y, we have the theta, and we compute this like Y equals MX plus B. Okay? We can compute the corresponding output rho. Okay? So given the point, given the angle, I can determine the rho. So it’s basically plug plug this in, compute the rho. Plug this in, compute the rho. Plug this in, compute the rho. So we can do is, um, we can start kind of like drawing this line in this Hough space and then start accumulating them. If it goes through, okay, the index of this, so these are the actual indices, zero, uh, one, two, three, four, five, six. Okay? And then these are indices of rows. If, okay, we’re going to be determining the index. Oh, this rho actually belongs here. What is this? This is the index four. This first theta actually belongs to the first index, index one. So index of theta one, index of rho four. Again, the index of theta one, index of rho is four, plus one. So what basically what I’m doing is I’m gonna pick some theta, I’m gonna compute the corresponding rho, go to that space, go to that corresponding index, and then increment by one. Voting. Okay?

I can do this for all different types of sinusoids. So it’s going to have, um, same area if if a line happens to be going through that same bin, we’re going to be this value is gonna be keep on accumulating. And eventually we’re going to find the, um, theta star and the rho star. So these stars, super scripted stars typically represent some optimal solution. Okay? So these we’re finding the solutions, the one that actually, um, is has the highest votes. And that corresponding data, so suppose this is the value where has, I don’t know, like four votes. Find we’re gonna find the value, we’re gonna actually go to the corresponding index. Oh, this is index three and then index, uh, what is this? Six. Okay? We’re gonna go there and then choose maybe, so the thing is, uh, you realize that this H actually a range. So this is not exactly a single one. It’s ranging from let’s say, um, 54 54 to 72. Typically just pick the middle one. Some somewhere sort of a midpoint. So what would that be? Like 63, 64, whatever. And then rho also pick something that is in between. So whatever value that kind of goes at the center of this this range of that corresponding bin, that’s gonna be our solution theta star and the rho star. Okay? And if you use that theta star and rho star go back to the line and then it’s going to the one that goes through all of them. Okay?

We’re going to try to simplify that process a little more. Um, we do not actually have to try every single theta. Why? Because, okay, we’re talking about edge points. So in the image, we have a point, but this is not just based... it’s not just a random point, we actually computed the... we actually can compute the theta. We can actually compute the direction of this edge for each pixel, right? Um, based off using the nearby images. So we do not actually have to rotate this line and then try every single possible ones and then drawing this draw this. All we can do is, oh, there’s a point. We know the theta. The theta is actually let’s say the theta is actually facing this way. That means, okay, what is this line? This is the one that is orthogonal to the edge, right? That means it’s an edge that has to be part of has to be that this point has to be a part of an edge, a line that has that shape. That means we can actually just use the theta that we approximate at each pixel, at each edge, and then just go to that corresponding data and just count there. We do not there’s no way the line is gonna go through this. We do not have to try all these other thetas. We just have to try a single theta that gives us this potential potential line which is this theta. Right? So the modified one is much simpler. For each edge point, we know we can compute the gradient orientation. Just directly plug that in. There is no for loop to go through try out all possible theta and then just start rotating it like this. We know what the line is. There’s only one line. Use that theta and then just repeat the process. So each point edge point is not going to be drawing this sinusoid wave. It’s just going to start counting. Okay? One X1 Y1, go to that theta, uh, and the rho, count. Okay? Much simpler.

Um, but if you were to draw the, uh, so this is the Hough transform example. You’re kind of seeing all these sinusoidal waves. Okay? Um, and we can also, uh, kind of pinpoint potential intersections. Okay? Uh, it’s because the bright area, brighter the area means that more points are there. Okay? So let’s see. Um. These are not exactly lines by the way. Because these are not exactly lines. These are every single point because there are so many different edges, right? Um, we don’t exactly know which ones are useful. So let’s say this edge point maybe is for this one. Maybe this edge point is for this one. Okay? But probably, um, suppose this region corresponds to this one. All these edge points along this line are probably gonna be around this area. Um, and how many intersections do we see? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, and kind of hard to see but there is also one here, eight, nine, and ten. Okay? This is somewhat... has a kind of weird manifold because after certain degrees, okay, suppose this is 180 degrees, it’s gonna start start repeating itself, right? So there are 10 intersections and there are 10 lines. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and ten. Right? So this is kind of what you can expect. Um, the impact of noise. So this is a perfectly collinear line. So all these sinusoids are very, very nicely intersecting a single single point. But if that’s not the case, you see start gonna start realizing that if I actually use a bin that is too small, right? Too small that it actually counts this and this separately, then what’s gonna happen is that, okay, we’re gonna actually have two lines. Maybe one that goes through these, okay? It fits very nicely but only for those points because we’re very strict about them. And there is maybe another line that goes through the rest of them. Okay? But if we have a single reasonably sized bin, we’re gonna consider everything as a one line. Why? Because we’re only going to draw a single data and row from this. Okay? And then draw the corresponding line here. Okay?

What difficulty does this present for the implementation? Just means, um, picking the size of the bin. So, practical tips. Um, choosing a good grid and basically the discretization of the bin size. If it’s too coarse, too coarse means too large, okay, large votes obtained when too many different lines correspond to a single bucket. So if it’s just too extremely large, even though line barely goes through all these points, it should be better to maybe, um, really consider these two different points. It could be that, oh, I mean, kind of goes through all those points because that’s what my bin is saying. Um, it can be the line that is just too liberal. Okay? Not might not be a good fit. If it’s too fine then we may be too strict about the the standard of the lines. Okay? So we’re gonna vote for neighbors, um, spread the vote. There’s one thing another thing you can do is kind of spread the effect of the vote. So instead of having a single point, maybe you can nearby parameters maybe have some sort of a, um, effect. So kind of like a spillover. So if this is value is 10 in this bin, maybe this value has maybe it’s going to add two or something. Or maybe instead of adding one, just one to that corresponding bin, maybe we can add 0.1, 0.1 or something. Okay? To be a little bit more like a smoothing effect. Okay? Um, identify the winning bins, make necessary adjustments afterwards. Okay?

Circle also works. Uh, this is part of your homework assignments I believe. Um, a circle with radius R and the center A, comma B can be described as as follows. So circle formula should be having three parameters. Right? One for the A, one for the B, so this is the the center circle center and the radius of the circle. Now, um, one thing that we’re gonna be doing is fix... we’re gonna fix the R. So we’re going to be finding fitting a circle of specific radius. That’s what we’re gonna do. Um, so analogous to how we went back and forth between XY and rho theta, gonna be doing the same thing. Fitting a circle means identifying these three parameters. A, B, and R. But, um, to make things a little bit simpler, R is something that we’re just gonna heuristically choose and just try. Okay? So if R is not part of our free variable, something that is we’re going to be just fixing, then it’s again, it’s the same as XY going back and forth between the AB. This is the again the edge location. A and B is the center of the circle. Okay? So circle centered at A and B, radius R has the following formula. For fixed radius R, unknown gradient direction. So, um, this is what we want to do. These are the given points. Okay? Oh, circle suppose we somehow magically know is the perfect radius. Okay? So all we have to do is find the center circle center which is here. Okay? Suppose this line is our kind of like our goal. Okay? Just to show that a circle can fit this way.

First, um, given this point, what can we do? We’re going to map a point to something in this circle AB space. Okay? Of fixed R. Um, in the line equation, if it’s M and B, it’s a straight line. If it’s rho and theta, then it’s has a sinusoid wave. What should this look like in the circle case in the AB space of the circle? If I keep on doing this, okay, you see how what’s what’s happening? So what what I should be doing is drawing a bunch of circles that contains that point. That’s what I should be doing, right? Line is the same. Drawing a bunch of lines that contain that point. Draw a bunch of line in the, uh, uh, that, um, rho and theta that contain that point. Gonna do the same thing. Draw a bunch of circles that contains that that point. If I do this, uh, you start seeing that, oh, these As and Bs, okay, these are still kind of in the image space in a sense that this X is the I guess the the horizontal offset. This A is also horizontal offset. Okay? So this is also a Cartesian coordinate system where As and Bs are the locations of the circles. They’re not slopes or they’re not rhos or they’re not angles. They’re actually centers of the circles. Because that’s how the circle formula has been derived. Okay? So what do we do? Same thing. Draw all these circles in the Hough space. Find the intersection of the circles. Okay? And that is where if we take this here, it should be a circle that contains this point which happens to be containing also this point which also happens to be containing this other point. Okay? So idea is perfectly identical. Okay?

Um. Oh, this is homework five. Uh, very easy. For every edge pixel X_i, each possible radius, um, R, but again we’re not gonna be trying out possible radii. Um, for each possible gradient direction, again, we can just easily compute this. We can estimate it using the gradient at the X_i, right? We can just derive the data. We’re going to be computing As and Bs and then do the same binning and incrementing process. Okay? So in homework five, we’ll manually choose the radius R so you only keep track of the A and B bins. Okay? So simple illustration. Suppose these are actual images. Okay? They’re not just random lines. This suppose it’s an image of lines and circles in the image space. And we’re looking for radius a circle fitting a circle of radius R, uh, radius five here. Okay? Uh, that means, um, at this edge pixel here facing this direction, um, we should be expecting a circle to be fitting that point tangential to that point with radius R like this. Okay? This edge point should be... so this this distance is R exactly. Okay? If it’s tangential to that point, then this actually literally is the circle a center of the circle. So it should look like this. This edge point. Okay? This is the potential circle in the image space. This is a potential circle and this is the potential circle. Okay? These are the potential circle centers going from here, okay, to here. Right? Radius five. Okay. So one... the start of these vectors, arrows are just indicating that, um, this is a subset of the edge pixel. So a good edge is edge pixels here. It’s it should be facing this way of radius five. And that means a circle should be looking like this. Same thing. This one, radius five, circle looks like this. Circle looks like this. All centered nearby. And this is the these are these red dots are the potential circle centers. Okay?

Um, question would be, okay, uh, maybe this data is actually may also make sense going the opposite way. So that is true and we’re gonna be seeing that, um, artifact later on. So we’re going to be dividing it into different bins. So these are... so this is why I’m trying to tell you that, um, As and Bs, these actual they’re actually of the kind of like the same units. Okay? Compared to the X and Ys. So A’s bins index, so bin index means these are not just random numbers. These are just, um, actual indices. One, two, three, four. That’s just would be dividing the actual A by some specific bin size. So if I divide by the bin size 10, then range is from zero to 10, 11 to 20, um, 21 to whatever. Okay? Um, and then if we start doing the voting, obviously this index is going to have the largest number of votes and it must be a center of a circle of radius R. Okay?

Um, so actual real image, um, so these are just different coins, um, of US dollar. Um, these I believe these three are of the same sizes and this is a slightly smaller one. Compute the edges first. Suppose this is the result of the Harris, um, not the Canny edge detector. Um, and then we start doing the voting on on a penny. So this one. Okay? Um, this we’re trying to look for the suppose the R so this R has been fixed. Um, and that R I assume is the radius of this this penny. Um, you see a very bright spot. Okay? This is exactly where the center of this circle should be right here. But we’re also seeing some large faded circle. That is basically the artifact of, um, treating this edge as potentially facing, um, having a circle on this side and the other side. So going back, um, I may have a circle on this other side. The theta is something that is relative. So even though the angle is this way, okay, um, I can also think of this as having an angle this way. Okay? Um, it’s just a, I guess, uh, perspective issue. So what if this is showing is this circle is the artifact of fitting, um, potential circle centers where the tangential tangential, um, voting is happening on the other side like this. So that’s why this at the center of this, um, so at the midpoint I guess, this would be the size of the penny and this would be the R and then the other inner distance would also be be R. Okay? Um, and if we increase the, uh, the radius to be the size that kind of happens to be matching these the radius of these quarters, then we don’t see as strong, um, voting here happening at the the penny but this other cases we’re seeing this. Again, we’re also seeing this, um, artifact. You you realize that, uh, this circle specifically has a lot of noises. I mean that means, um, it all these spots were once voted as a potential circle center. Why is that? Because we’re not seeing clear edges. Every single so ones that have survived and came, you know, all the way up to this stage, we have to consider them. Right? So for each of these white pixels, we need to actually consider potential circle centers. That’s why these clean ones when there’s nothing inside, they’re relatively not as, um, grainy but all these every single ones we’re not skipping them. We need to try them out. That’s why they’re random, um, potential circle centers that are, um, with small small votes. Okay? Um, and if we, uh, actually place those circles on top of them, they actually match pretty nicely. Right?

So, Hough transform pros and cons. Pros. All points are processed independently so so can cope with the occlusion, um, and gaps. Um, so in other words, if the points are disconnected like this, okay, they can still make votes and then have somewhat some sort of independent relationships. Some robustness to noise, um, because we’re doing the voting. So if there’s some outliers, they’re not gonna be considered as as much. Can detect multiple instances of a model in a single pass. Um, if there happens to be let’s say I’m going to find three best lines then what I have to do is within the bins I just have to pick the three best, um, votings, um, I guess bins. Okay? And that can happen after a single process. But there are very obvious cons. Um, complexity of the search time for maxima increases exponentially with the number of model parameters. In other words, um, so line has two parameters. Uh, let’s say theta and rho. Circle originally has three parameters. A, B, and the R. We can bring this we can generalize this Hough transform idea to some larger function, more complicated function with more number of parameters. Maybe it can have 10. But 10 parameters like, um, it can be very complicated function. We can still do this process. We can still find, um, a solution. Maybe just shape doesn’t matter. But the point is that what happens is that our dimension is going to increase. So this is a two dimensional space. Right? We have, um, one for the data, one for the rho. A, B, and R, this actually a three dimensional space. If we have 10 parameters of the function, then we have 10 dimensional space. Okay? It’s not just any 10. Okay? This 10, um, so let’s say, um, if three parameters have 10 choices, if there are three parameters, let’s say A, B, and C, and each of them has 10 bins. Okay? Trying every single one of them out is going to cost in 10 times 10 times 10. Okay? So if you have, um, 10 parameters, each one has five 10 choices, then we’re looking at 10 to the 10th power of possible bins, of bins that we have to consider. Okay? Um, and the quantization. How do you pick the right bin size? How, um, liberal and how strict are we gonna be about the the fit? So that’s the issue. Okay?

Before we move on to the segments part, um, let’s take the attendance and take a quick break. Um. Let’s move on. Uh. So. Okay. Last part about the groupings. Uh, essentially clustering. Uh, you’ve heard about it. Yeah. Uh, edges group them turn into turn them into lines. Segments like small segments. Um, uh, we’re gonna be doing the basically in a way just segmentation. Um, getting examples much better. So. The edges are edges and lines are lines but what we’re gonna do is kind of group the pixels, um, spatially group them, um, based off of their similarities. Okay? So in a way it’s like edge detection, um, but segmentation is more based off of the of the pixels. So it’s basically gonna say, oh, these pixels belong to the same group. These pixels belong to the same group. So it’s not about really finding the boundary, it’s about identifying and assigning the each pixel, I guess, um, some sort of a an identity. Okay? So, gonna separate images, break it down into coherent objects. Um, so yeah. It’s a one of the most common, um, tasks in the vision as you mentioned start talk about the segmentation. These are also called the superpixels. Um, so they’re not exactly segmenting or grouping the entire image but they’re not at the pixel level. They’re like small, um, something in between the pixel and large segments. So something in between these full segmented fully segmented things and the each individual pixel. So superpixels. They’re larger pixels. Um, individually they don’t make much sense sense just like the pixels, right? The pixels don’t really make sense independently but if we group them, they start making sense. So they’re like smaller groups of pixels that can actually be combined into larger segments. Okay? Um, so why do we group them? Because things look similar. Um, talking about similarity again. Um, very important. So yeah da da da da. These are boring examples.

So. Input image. We have a circle that’s slightly overlapped by this gray square. Um, and I want to basically say, oh, these pixels belong to one thing and then these other pixels belong to another. Um, based off of the intensities. This is the intensity histogram. So this 250 something are probably the the white regions. Okay? And the like 190, 80, whatever, these values are probably these gray areas and then things that are super, uh, small intensities are probably this, um, the the black pixels. Now these based off of this information, uh, anyone can come up with a method to say, oh, this pixel is is for, uh, the gray circle square. This is for the black one. This is for the background. We can easily do that by just looking at the intensity. Okay? Let’s say if it’s, um, plus or minus five of 250 then I’m just gonna call those pixels of the white pixels, of this background. If it’s plus and minus, uh, 190, then they’re all grays. So these are it’s a very easy easy grouping process. But the reason why the problem’s gonna get difficult, okay, so we’re gonna say all these pixels are assigned to group one. All these gray ones are assigned to two. All these threes, um, uh, white ones bright ones are assigned to three. The issue is that when things are not as clean. Okay? So I’ve added some noise. Probably some Gaussian noise. Okay? And, um, then what happens is the distributions are not as clear cut as before. Right? They’re not not bad, not not that bad, but now the question will be like how do you actually draw a line here? What is the best line? What is the best boundary that actually determines? Okay? The other thing is, um, there could be, okay, so there could be a, um, gray circle pixel that is somewhat so even if I draw a boundary here, okay, suppose we draw a boundary here. So whatever is in between these two values this whatever is in between this range, they’re all group one. Whatever is in between this range is all group two. Whatever is in between these, uh, this range is group three. There’s a chance that, um, these are all supposedly coming from the the gray square. Could be some pixels having some pixel intensity which is on this side. In other words, there could be some white bright enough pixels within the this gray square but we’re still gonna consider them as three. So in other words, there could be many many small pixels where they all are assigned to three because we don’t we’re not accounting for their locations. Okay? We’re only looking for at their intensities. But in our the segmentation that we want, right, is should also be accounting for the proximity, distance, the spatial relationships, the structure, right? Because we’re talking about vision. Vision is they’re objects. Right? Structure is extremely important. It’s not just about colors. So this is a very naive easy setup. Even though we can you may be able to find the perfect boundary between them, it’s not gonna be enough because this is just a intensity feature. Then you can think of this as a feature. So later on the clustering is not gonna be based off of the intensity but some some higher dimensional again some feature space. Okay? Which is going to also in such cases is not those features supposedly hopefully are not just based off of the intensities but they somehow also capture some spatial relationships. Okay?

So we need to cluster them. Um, suppose we only have this intensity values. So these are intensities and these each dot is representing a sample point. So if there’s a point here it means that it’s a pixel intensity of 190. Kind of like the distribution we just saw. Right? You have some distribution here, some distribution here, and some larger distribution here. So what we want to do is choosing the centers. Remember that, um, the bag of words example? I want to find a one representative, um, kind of like the, uh, the center, the boss of each group. Okay? Um, so we want to choose three centers as the representative intensities and label every pixel according to which of these centers it is nearest to. So this suppose there is a center one. Okay? Depending on and then there is a center two. Um, there could be some pixels intensities here let’s say. How do we decide that which ever one this belong would should belong to? Um, one way to think about this is drawing a boundary, okay, the decision boundary. Where if it’s, uh, smaller than that that boundary then it’s one, larger than that boundary is two. Another way to think about that is this is basically the point where one and two the distance from, um, this point to one and this point to two are the same. Right? That boundary intuitively that boundary if you say something’s less than that boundary it’s one, greater than that boundary is two. That means that line itself is when they’re actually equal to each other. Okay? So basically means the same thing. Says label every pixel according to which of these centers it is nearest to. If you put all the possible intensity values here, everything to the left of this would be belonging to one and everything to the right of this, okay, would be belonging to two. So same idea. Um, but like I said, finding the boundary is more like the, um, different perspective. You’re trying to identify which of these pixels I should be, um, the basically labeling the groups to each of these pixels.

Okay. So suppose I have chosen these as the group centers. Then, um, what I may be able to do is, okay, uh, no matter what all these values, um, every single these black circles, every single pixels, find the nearest centers and which ever the nearest center is, I’m going to be belonging to that group. Okay? So all these ones are probably gonna belong to group two. All these ones are probably gonna belong to group three. Okay? But there are some other issues like I mentioned. Okay? Um, it may not be as clear. It’s possible. Best cluster centers are those that minimize the sum of squared differences. We exactly saw this. Right? Sum of the squared differences. Um. So between all the points and their nearest centers. So we’re not taking this we’re not gonna be doing this to every single combination. So there are two things we have to consider, right? Cluster ID and the point. Okay? So, um, and this sum of squared difference you can think of this as an error as well. Okay? So for each point, um, it suppose it already has been assigned a cluster. Okay? Suppose we’re all we’re gonna do right now is assuming the cluster has been assigned, I want to evaluate it. I want to numerically represent the goodness of that assignment. So points in so for each cluster i. So let’s say cluster one. There must be some points corresponding to, uh, within that cluster. So there must be some points so go through those points. Okay, it belongs to cluster i. Then I compute this. Okay? What do I compute? Difference between the intensity of that that point intensity and the cluster intensity. Okay? So take the, um, the difference, take the L2 norm and take the square. Just I don’t exactly need this. This reason why I have this is in case these Ps and Cs are vectors. Okay? If they’re vectors then I want to do the, um, that squared sum of the squares. X minus, uh, X1 squared plus X2 squared dot dot dot. Okay? So if Ps and CIs are vectors then what happens is P P1 minus CI 1 squared plus and so on. All the way up to P whatever the feature dimension D is. Okay? So don’t have to pay too much attention about to these norms assignment. But the point is I’m gonna be doing this for all the points eventually because the points have to belong to at least one of the clusters. So go through the clusters for each cluster look for the corresponding points compute the the differences how far those points are away from them. Okay?

Um, so if the centers are assignments are good, that means all these points are nicely assigned such that the diff distance between those points to their corresponding centers are not are small as possible. Okay? So whenever we try to say something’s good or something’s bad, we need to have some sort of a function or formula to measure that value. And here is one example. Sum of the squared differences. So that’s gonna be our standard. We’re gonna be looking for assignments basically assignments means meaning, um, each point assigning the cluster index. The best assignment has the minimum SSD. Okay? So with this objective, it is a, um, the issue with this is it’s a chicken and egg problem. So do we, um, in order for us to compute this, we need to know the assignments. Okay? So suppose if we knew the cluster centers, we would allocate points to groups by assigning, um, each to its cluster. So if the cluster centers are known, then we will be assigning those points to the clusters and then compute the SSD. If we knew the group memberships, so if we knew, uh, we don’t know what the CIs are but if we knew what the group members are, then getting the center it is basically the centroid, the mean. Okay? So centers we can maybe we can choose one of the points as the centers but we can also compute some sort of a virtual centers. Okay? That’s more intuitive. So the issue is that for us to compute the centers, we need to have the assignments. But for us to have the assignments, we need to have the centers. Okay? So which one do we start first is the issue. Algorithmically speaking, we’re going to randomly choose the centers first and then slowly improve it. Okay? So we’re going to blindly just pick random centers and then compute and then try to slowly slowly adjust and improve the assignments.

Okay? So we’re going to randomly initialize this so this method is called the K-means clustering. So means are these the centroids, the centers that we’re trying to compute, right? K is just means K number of the clusters. And clustering is a clustering. Most fundamental, most commonly used, still being used clustering method in science and everything. Okay? Very very simple and effective clustering method. So randomly initialize the cluster centers or centroids C1 through CK. So there are K centroids. Um, this K is something that we we choose initially. And then given the cluster centers, so C1s and CKs, determine the points in each cluster. So... find the nearest centers and which ever the nearest center is, I’m going to be belonging to that group. Okay? So all these ones are probably gonna belong to group two. All these ones are probably gonna belong to group three. Okay? But there are some other issues like I mentioned. Okay? Um, it may not be as clear. It’s possible. Best cluster centers are those that minimize the sum of squared differences. We exactly saw this. Right? Sum of the squared differences. Um. So between all the points and their nearest centers. So we’re not taking this we’re not gonna be doing this to every single combination. So there are two things we have to consider, right? Cluster ID and the point. Okay? So, um, and this sum of squared difference you can think of this as an error as well. Okay? So for each point, um, it suppose it already has been assigned a cluster. Okay? Suppose we’re all we’re gonna do right now is assuming the cluster has been assigned, I want to evaluate it. I want to numerically represent the goodness of that assignment. So points in so for each cluster i. So let’s say cluster one. There must be some points corresponding to, uh, within that cluster. So there must be some points so go through those points. Okay, it belongs to cluster i. Then I compute this. Okay? What do I compute? Difference between the intensity of that that point intensity and the cluster intensity. Okay? So take the, um, the difference, take the L2 norm and take the square. Just I don’t exactly need this. This reason why I have this is in case these Ps and Cs are vectors. Okay? If they’re vectors then I want to do the, um, that squared sum of the squares. X minus, uh, X1 squared plus X2 squared dot dot dot. Okay? So if Ps and CIs are vectors then what happens is P P1 minus CI 1 squared plus and so on. All the way up to P whatever the feature dimension D is. Okay? So don’t have to pay too much attention about to these norms assignment. But the point is I’m gonna be doing this for all the points eventually because the points have to belong to at least one of the clusters. So go through the clusters for each cluster look for the corresponding points compute the the differences how far those points are away from them. Okay?

Um, so if the centers are assignments are good, that means all these points are nicely assigned such that the diff distance between those points to their corresponding centers are not are small as possible. Okay? So whenever we try to say something’s good or something’s bad, we need to have some sort of a function or formula to measure that value. And here is one example. Sum of the squared differences. So that’s gonna be our standard. We’re gonna be looking for assignments basically assignments means meaning, um, each point assigning the cluster index. The best assignment has the minimum SSD. Okay? So with this objective, it is a, um, the issue with this is it’s a chicken and egg problem. So do we, um, in order for us to compute this, we need to know the assignments. Okay? So suppose if we knew the cluster centers, we would allocate points to groups by assigning, um, each to its cluster. So if the cluster centers are known, then we will be assigning those points to the clusters and then compute the SSD. If we knew the group memberships, so if we knew, uh, we don’t know what the CIs are but if we knew what the group members are, then getting the center it is basically the centroid, the mean. Okay? So centers we can maybe we can choose one of the points as the centers but we can also compute some sort of a virtual centers. Okay? That’s more intuitive. So the issue is that for us to compute the centers, we need to have the assignments. But for us to have the assignments, we need to have the centers. Okay? So which one do we start first is the issue. Algorithmically speaking, we’re going to randomly choose the centers first and then slowly improve it. Okay? So we’re going to blindly just pick random centers and then compute and then try to slowly slowly adjust and improve the assignments.

Okay? So we’re going to randomly initialize this so this method is called the K-means clustering. So means are these the centroids, the centers that we’re trying to compute, right? K is just means K number of the clusters. And clustering is a clustering. Most fundamental, most commonly used, still being used clustering method in science and everything. Okay? Very very simple and effective clustering method. So randomly initialize the cluster centers or centroids C1 through CK. So there are K centroids. Um, this K is something that we we choose initially. And then given the cluster centers, so C1s and CKs, determine the points in each cluster. So... find the nearest centers and which ever the nearest center is, I’m going to be belonging to that group. Okay? So for every point P, find the smallest distance between P and C_i. Okay? And then assign that point to that cluster i. Okay? So now the points have the clusters. We can recompute the centers. Given the points in each cluster, solve for C_i that minimizes the SSD. Okay? I’m going to give you an extreme case. Suppose you just have a single center. Okay? Um, maybe here. And I have these points. And these points there’s only one cluster that it’s gonna be assigned to. This one. So they’re all gonna be assigned as cluster one. I’m gonna be should I keep on using this cluster centers? No. Based off of my points, I can reassign, I can recompute the clusters. New cluster is gonna be the one that actually minimizes its within cluster SSD. Essentially but anyways. So going to be recomputing the centers. To be the mean points, the centroids of the clusters. How do I compute this? Literally just the mean. Okay? If C has been changed. Okay? That means, okay, um, if C has been changed, that means what what may actually happen is there is something, uh, we need to make adjustments. I’m gonna give you an... I guess this was not really a good example. Um. So once the C has been changed. Okay? One, we’re never gonna reinitialize. Once C has been changed, we need to reassign. So I’m gonna give you another... so okay. So what I should be doing is suppose there is a point here. And there there used to be some other, um, other centroid here. Okay? Um. Before, um, this one was the closest to this one. But suppose a centroid has been moved to so this one has been moved to not not here but maybe here. Okay? Here. Okay? That means I may have to reassign the points because now this point suppose is closest to one instead of the two. Okay? We don’t know until we try. So if the center has been shifted, okay, mean if the mean has been shifted, we need to recompute the points and reassign them in case, okay, the this point now finds a a closer cluster center. Okay? We’re gonna be repeating this. If that happens, okay, so if this has been moved, um, for each cluster, I’m going to reassign them. In that case what happens is this is actually now going to belong to cluster one like this. Then what happens? I I can actually I actually need to compute the cluster center again because now I have new points. If I always have the same points, okay, um, even if I take the means repeatedly, it’s going to stay the same. But if new points are added or new points some points are lost, then I need to recompute this. That means this thing could actually move slightly towards the left because of these points. Okay? Things have moved. That means I maybe there is another point that actually I need to reassign. So you just keep on repeating this until the assignments are not changed. In other words, if the assignments are not changed, the cluster assignments are not changed, that also means the cluster centers are not moving anymore. Okay?

So this is the iterative process. The iterative means we’re there’s a small change that we’re making at each steps repeatedly and we repeat that process until certain conditions or criteria are met. In this case, when if even if we do this many many more times, if nothing’s are changing, okay, in other words, if the centroids are not moving, the centroids are not moving that means, um, the the cluster assignments have not been changed, there’s no need to repeat so we just stop. Okay? So this is an iterative method. Um, so it’ll always converge to some solution. Um, in other what does it mean by some solution? It’ll stop. It’ll start from somewhere and then it’ll say, oh, I can’t actually improve my SSD anymore, I’m gonna stop. It is a solution. One possible solution. Okay? That means it can be a local minimum of the objective. What is the objective? It’s the sum of the squared differences. Okay? It could be that just because I stopped does not mean it is optimal at that point but does not mean that it is the optimal in all possible cases. Okay? This is the biggest biggest, um, issue with the K-means clustering. You stop but there’s no guarantee that that is actually, um, one of the best results that you can have. Okay?

So. Um. I’m gonna finish them next week. Okay? Oh, oh, no. Okay. Next week, uh, no in-person lectures, no online lectures. I’m gonna be uploading uh the makeup videos from previous years. Okay? Both Tuesday and Thursday. Okay? So don’t come here next Tuesday and Thursday. Okay?