Yeah, um, I believe this is where we stopped. Um, talking about the difference between convolution and correlation. Very similar, but the, I guess the order of operation is slightly different. And, and I also said that, um, it’s not too important yet, but it will be quite useful later on because of these properties where the convolution is commutative, so it doesn’t matter whether you use, whether you do, um, F convolved with B or, or G, or G convolved with F and such. It’s also associative. But cross-correlation is not. But the way that we’ve been computing, it’s a little bit more natural to do the typical cross-correlation. You just, because they share the same index, right? So if U is, um, minus one, V is minus one, um, U is the, what is it, the row direction and the V is the column direction, then this is where the minus one U is and this is where the minus one V is and such. Okay. Convolution is slightly different. Um, even if the U is negative one and V is negative one, F is actually the bottom right corner. So, it’s going this way, right, while the actual kernel is going this way. Right? Um, so, let’s move on from, from the technicality.

So smoothing, um, expecting positive values, uh, they need to sum up to one. Meaning the before and after results, intensities, we also call them energy, so basically the original volume needs to be maintained. The amount of smoothing proportional to mask size and removing high-frequency components, this we’ll talk about later on if we have the chance. So, let’s talk about some examples. Um, if we do the convolution, so we’re going to talk about these cases, what would be the result if we do a convolution or corres— uh, cross-correlation? Did I say cross-correlation? Yeah, correlation filtering using, um, this kernel? Obviously, nothing changes. Okay. It has gone through some sort of filter, but nothing has changed because the filter does not change anything. What do you think is going to happen with this? Okay? Remember it’s a cross-correlation. It’s not smoothing. Okay? You don’t see any sort of a smoothing-related shape or the design of this kernel. What happens is it will be shifting all the pixels to the left. So what this tells is whatever pixel that I have at the center here is a hundred percent coming from the pixel right next to it, to the right. Right? So, this is, um, that’s why I don’t want you to think that filtering equals smoothing. Filtering is just this sort of a iterative process. It’s not just, um, smoothing is, smoothing is not the only filtering process. We can use this filter to somehow shift the image to the right, to the left, top and bottom in different, different places. Okay?

This we are all familiar with, this would be the box filter. Right? So, when I say the sum has to be one, the kernel, sum of the kernel, since the values inside the kernel has to be equal to one. Otherwise, like I said, the, whatever, um, weighted sum that we do here using the values here, we may end up changing the overall magnitude. Okay? If this is not one, but two, then the overall values are going to go, um, kind of double for every single one of them. So there is a slight change. We don’t want that. So sum of the values inside the kernel, can expect them to be always equal to one. Okay? If that’s, um, I mean, intentionally maybe you may want to lower the overall intensity, then that would be fine, but if you’re expecting the overall image to have some different effect where you don’t want the, the brightness to go up or down uniformly, then you want to make sure that the sum of the values here equals to one.

Uh, this is something different. So, suppose this is a new form of a kernel. Okay? So you have two at the center, but you’re actually subtracting it by the box kernel. The sum is the same. The sum of the values inside is two, sum of the values here is one, so overall it’s going to be one. So that’s fine. But what is the effect of this? Okay? Can slightly decompose this, you know, it’s just sum of the, just the matrix additions, right? So we slightly decompose it. So, this, uh, this kernel gets decomposed into, uh, one that has the one at the center and another one that has the one at the center. This, as you know, the image doesn’t change. This, okay, it’s going to make something happen. Okay? So this is the original, the one on the left is the original image. One on the right is the original image minus the blurry part. So this, right, makes the image blurrier. In a way, it smoothed the image, right? We are subtracting the original image by the smooth part. What gives you is the detail. So the image basically consists of varying kinds of details. Ones that are, um, kind of large details, okay, or ones that are more fine-grained. This belongs to the larger details. Okay? We’re basically smoothing. Smoothing means you’re removing very, very small details including the noise. So, what happens is original image subtracted by the large detail, meaning you’re left with the fine-grained details, like potentially noise, but there could be something else.

So, this is also called the sharpening filter. Okay? What you ended up doing is kind of doing the, um, the opposite of, I guess, um, denoising. Opposite of smoothing. Smoothing, you’re removing small details including the noise. Hopefully, that you’re not losing too much of a detail, you’re only removing the noise, but inevitably you will actually end up removing some, you know, small details, right? But then if we do the opposite, okay, we’re going to be, if we actually end up leaving only the details left and then adding that to the image, it emphasizes, it amplifies the sharp details. That actually means that we’re also going to be amplifying noise. Okay? It looks sharper, but sharper means the noises also got sharper. So these small pixel-level noises, like for example this one, oh, this one. Okay. This. They also got sharper. So, it has pros and cons. It’s the opposite of, um, smoothing. So, amplifies strong intensity while suppressing the nearby intensities. Okay. What that means is we’re going to be amplifying the center pixel, right, because we’re multiplying that by two, but we’re going to be reducing, okay, we’re also going to be suppressing it by nearby values. Okay? This is the nearby values, the neighborhoods. Okay? If there is some sort of a very strong value that is not at the center, but that are nearby, then this value is also going to be pretty high. That means whatever this value, the center one that we’re interested in, is going to be not as amplified because we’re subtracting it by it. If there, so if there are no intensities that are nearby that are strong enough to suppress this, then that single pixel is going to be amplified much more. There’s no nearby, strong nearby pixel intensities to suppress this amplification. Right? Therefore, if there is a single pixel, so you have an image, there is a single pixel and this is very strong intensity. We put this kernel at the center, okay? There are no other values high enough to make this value high, in other words, make this suppress this value. Then this one is going to get amplified. It’s going to look even stronger. Okay? But if there are some other values nearby, that means this value is going to go large, get larger, that means it’s going to get suppressed. So the overall result, this value is not alone by itself. Therefore, it’s not going to be sharpened as much.

So one example you can see is this, inside his eye, okay, there is a single pixel that is very bright, relatively bright. The other values are relatively lower, right? That means the left, um, outcome is going to be high, but the right outcome is going to be low because there are no white, high intensity pixels. Therefore, that pixel gets even sharper. Okay? Um, so compared to its neighbor, if the center pixel has high intensity, make it more apparent. If it is lower intensity, it makes it less apparent. Okay? Um, which means that this black, uh, darker parts of this eye got even darker because there is a strong pixel nearby. That means this pixel, okay, this value is going to be high whenever this bright value is included. Right? So if there are darker, small intensity areas nearby strong intensity pixel, that means those areas are actually going to be suppressed even more because this value is going to be larger, uh, get larger by if this bright pixel falls within one of the neighborhoods. Right? So, basically the point is that strong ones that are isolated, it’s going to get stronger. Weaker ones that are isolated, it’s going to get weaker. So, sharpening. This is what it looks like. Sometimes people may prefer this pixel, uh, picture, this photo, this version image over this one because maybe they prefer sharper, more details. But it also implies that it’s going to amplify noises. It’s going to look grainier. Okay? Maybe this looks more natural. You lose some noises, looks smoother, more natural. Okay?

So, this is the end of the simple, um, image smoothing and, uh, sharpening. We’re going to move on to, uh, the next use case of filtering. Um, slightly different. We’re not really going to be manipulating the image. It’s not really a computational photography. We’re going to try to start getting details, information, patterns using kernels. Okay? This is the basics. This sort of idea is the basic of all vision tasks that we’ll be seeing. So, you have an image, black and white, so it’s every single pixel just has a single intensity value. What if we do the filtering with this sort of a looking kernel? Okay? First row, uh, first column has some positive values, um, second col— uh, third column has some negative values. Ones in the center are zeros. That means it’s, what it’s going to do is probably going to add some values to the left of the center pixel, add some values to the right of the center pixels, multiply them, okay? The overall value at the center, the outcome, right, the one that we’re going to be, you know, replacing with. This value is going to be near zero if there are the values here, pixels here and the pixels here are similar. Conversely, this value is going to get very high, positive value or very large negative value if there is a difference between first column and the third column. So this is the center. You compare the pixels to the left, compare the pixels to the, to the right. If the differences are large, you’re either going to get very large positive value or very small, or large negative value. Okay?

This is the way to start, um, detecting edges. So in this case, we’re comparing the difference between the left pixel and the right pixel. In smooth areas, it’s not going to do much, right? Because the difference between left and right are all very similar. But as soon as you get to the point where there’s a very large, uh, significant, apparent difference between the left and the right side of the center pixel that you’re interested in. In other words, we’re talking about vertical edges. Okay? So if we apply this to this image, we’re going to get zero values, near zero values if the areas are small, meaning, uh, areas, um, don’t have the vertical edges. No difference between left and right. Okay? Not exactly just left and right, but left, the, and the top, upper left one and the bottom left one. So we’re not just going to compare two. And we can have something like this. Like negative one, zero, and one. We may have something that looks like this, but we’re going to talk about why this maybe would be more useful. So you can start considering not just the ones that are left to you, but above and below of the one left to you. Still putting more emphasis on the one that’s left to you, that’s closer. Right? So as you can see, the areas, uh, you see, uh, so gray areas are zero, uh, regions and white or darker areas are the ones where there are non-zero values. Meaning those are the areas, okay, locations or pixels where there’s a, a difference between left and the right. Left and right, left and right. Okay? Um, so you see a very strong, uh, appearance of this pole, okay, and the shadows, but not as strong because it’s slightly diagonal. Okay? Um, this tree, you see the vertical boundary of the tree. Okay?

So let’s see, uh, this with a simpler image. Okay? What we’re essentially doing is computing the gradient. Change, um, uh, basically the change of the intensity. Okay? Suppose this is our image. Uh, the white areas are intensities of one and the black areas are the intensities of zeros. Then suppose this is our filter, positive one, zero, negative one. And we’re doing, uh, cross-correlation. Okay? Filter does not have to be square. Right? So, let’s apply this. What do you think is going to happen? Nothing happens here. Nothing happens here. Nothing happens here. Things start going to happen from these pixels. Why? Because left and right, uh, pixel intensities, values are different. Okay? This is what we get. We’re going to start calling this some sort of response, output. It’s not some sort of image manipulation. We’re actually trying to locally detect patterns. Okay? In this case, the gradient pattern, left and right difference, vertical edges. Visually, this is what the vertical edge, um, um, vertical edges of the images. Right? So, if we apply, considering this as an image, apply this filter, this is the outcome. And one of the things that you can tell is, okay, I intentionally designed the filter such that it detects vertical edges. Therefore, whatever, whatever the pixel values, outputs that have the non-zero values, some reasonably high pixel values, or just values in general, then those regions probably belong to vertical edges. Okay? Horizontal edges, you can change the filter, flip it upside down like this. Okay? Then it’s going to detect what? This area. Right?

Um, we’re going to get deeper into that, um, gradient filter later on. Okay? For now, uh, let’s talk about some other types of filters. Median filter. That means, um, we fix the window. Okay? We’re always looking at through the window, right? Some sort of, some sort of, um, size window. Then we’re going to do is pick the median value and replace it with the median value. So, in this image, I guess, the median is 27, therefore the output is going to be 27. Um, okay. What’s interesting is we’re not introducing new values. We’re not creating new values. We’re just picking one from the existing ones. Okay? It’s very good at removing spikes. Like, um, the salt and pepper noises. Something that is very, very strong because ones that are very strong, okay, are going to probably fall either here or here. Okay? So it’s never going to be, or very unlikely to be somewhere in the middle where the, the median is going to be at. Okay? But the issue, it’s a non-linear filter, meaning is that it’s not a combination, it’s not a process of multiplication and addition. There is a sorting that needs to happen. Okay? So computationally speaking, even though it looks simple, it’s not. Whenever there is a sorting, okay, things bad. Okay? The, uh, cross-correlation, convolution, they’re just very, very simple summations. Right? Multiplications and summations. Easy to parallelize. This, no, never. Okay? So, um, it may be useful, but we don’t really have to do this. We’re not going to see this again. So it’s very, very good at outliers. So, um, and it’s also edge preserving. So if you do the mean filter, it’s going to try to make this edges look smoother as well. Median filter, it’s going to only remove, um, very, very, um, uh, unlikely pixels. We also sometimes call these outliers. Okay? Outliers. Ones that are just exceptionally different. Okay? Almost like an error. Okay? So, cool. Yeah. Uh, so suppose this is the, um, synthetically added salt and pepper noise of this image. That’s why you see extremely large spikes, either zeros or ones. Okay? Median filter applied, it’s going to remove most of them. Pretty much all of them almost. Okay?

Um, let’s talk about practicality. Boundary issues. What do we do with the boundaries? Okay? This is the, uh, the image, the outcome example that we did before where we had some square and a dot and some other dot outside and we did some box filter, right? But there’s nothing. It’s, it’s empty along the boundary. Why? Because in order for us to compute this, this boundary, we need to put the window, but the window falls outside the image. Right? This is the boundary issue. So, what is the size of the output? Um, this is, these are just options of the Matlab functions. If we do whatever, whatever, and then there is an argument you put 'full', what happens is you’re going to basically, um, the new image, so F is the original image, H is the kernel, the, the dashed line is the size of the output image. You’re actually trying to, um, compute values as long as your kernel has at least one pixel overlapping with the original image. So you can technically compute this if you actually have some values to compute outside of the image. You can arbitrarily set values outside of the image, okay, and still somehow compute the values. Okay? So the size of the image grows. Okay? 'Same', this is what we typically do. We try to force the size of the image to be the same. Okay? So we’re going to try to use the image information as much as possible. So this 'full' is actually trying, going to try to increase the size of the image, um, as a result. We don’t really do this. What we typically do is the option 'same'. So before and after, the image sizes are going to be identical. That means we still need the information outside of the original image F. What do we do with this area? We need something for us to compute, perform this computation. Okay? So how do we set them? There are some conventions that we can use to arbitrarily set the images, the areas outside the image, um, just enough for us to compute the, um, these, these regions. Okay? The, uh, the filter window might fall off the edge. Okay? We need to extrapolate. What is extrapolate? Interpolation means computing the values between two values. So I’m going to, there are two things. I can compute the mid, uh, ones in the, ones in between. Like a linear combination. Right? If this is an X, this is a Y, whatever is in the middle is going to be some sort of a linear combination. Okay? One minus alpha plus alpha. Okay? This is a, one very simple linear combination. It has to fall in between. Extrapolation, by definition, means you’re computing things that are outside the range of your information. Okay? Computing, somehow computing these values even though you’ve, you have only seen this X and Y, I need to somehow compute the values outside of these combinations. Okay? Just like what we’re trying to do. We’re not computing things in the, in between, within the range. We’re trying to compute things that are outside of the range. That’s extrapolation.

Several conventions. Um, okay, let’s do clip filter. That means it’s not going to try to add anything meaningful, just put everything as zeros. Meaning black boundaries. Okay? That means the outcome, suppose we’re doing some sort of a Gaussian filter. Okay? This is the before and after. Okay? Um, the boundary, the actual image boundary is going to have some sort of a, um, blackish smoothing effect due to the information, due to the, the, um, the zero. We also call this zero padding. Um, so we’re padding the image. So we also call this a zero padding. Um, probably the most commonly used one. Zero padding. Padding. Um. It looks terrible, but most commonly used because, one, it’s easy to compute. We don’t need to compute anything. Okay? We do not actually need to create a new image that has this black boundary. We can just some, have some sort of a rule that says if it falls outside of the region, then just set it as zero. We don’t need any extra information. It’s just a constant fix. Okay? Two, um, if we’re talking about images, okay, we’re going to be doing a lot of stuff. We’re going to be doing a lot of filtering and this and that. This boundary issue does not really corrupt the information of your interest because chances are the, the important information is not going to be along the boundaries. We’re not going to really need this part of the image. We’re mostly going to be focusing at the center, right? We’re not going to, if there are, there is very important information along the boundaries, then it’s not a good image for you to use for whatever you want to use. Typically things are within the range where this boundary effect does not really corrupt or change the information of your interest. Okay? So even though this does not look perfect, unless you’re interested in somehow just manipulating the image and care really much, uh, about the boundaries. Um, because later on what we’re going to be doing is not just changing the image, um, like smoothing and sharpening. We’re going to try to just try to understand, extract information. In that sense, informations are usually going to be at the center where the, it’s actually meaningful. So all this seemingly, uh, flawed conventions are not that flawed in practice. Okay? So if we cut it off, if we, you can hardly notice the difference. Right? It’s a very, very, very light, um, effect of the, the zero padding.

Wrap around. That means you’re just going to be copying, just crop and paste, paste it onto the other side. Okay? You copy from this and add it to the other side. Um, and it has this effect. Okay. Doesn’t, looks weird. Um, copy the edge. You’re basically extending it until it’s needed. The very last pixel, just extend it. Okay? Looks quite natural. This is probably the most natural one. Okay? You really can’t tell the difference of the, um, before and after the boundary issue. Reflecting across the image. So you basically put a mirror and then just reflect it. Again, um, it’s, this is not bad, but if you think about this, they, they have pros and cons, but some of them are more computationally expensive than the other ones. Doesn’t need, basically does not need any computation. Wrapping around is you need to identify the region, you need to copy it over. Okay? You can probably also do that by doing some sort of indexing and rounding, obviously, right? So if you have, um, just realized, you have a kernel here. Let’s go back to the wrapping around part. Where is it? Okay. So you put the kernel here. I want, I need this regions, but to compute this region, uh, I don’t really need to really copy it over. I can have some sort of a modulus operator that says after some value of index that goes outside the original boundary, I just, I can just go back and then use these. Right? So computationally speaking, this is probably also not that expensive. This is just a way to visualize the information that should be used outside of the image boundary, but when you’re actually doing the computation, um, modulus operator could probably be used so that it basically runs, you know, seamlessly. Copying is probably easy. Reflecting could also be used, I guess, um, just computationally. Um, so don’t need to pay too much attention. We’re mostly going to be just using this in practice. Okay? So some properties of convolution. Um, don’t need to care too much about it. Um, okay.

Now the separability. Uh, this is where the property of convolution is becomes pretty useful. In some cases, filter is separable. We can factor, so you see the word factor, right? What is the factoring? I can somehow decompose some sort of a vector or matrix into two matrices. Okay? Not going from AB, A times B to X, but the other way. So we can factor into two steps. Convolve all rows and convolve all columns. So what we can do is, uh, suppose the one on the left is the actual filter, so H. This is the image F. Okay? Then what we can do is just do the normal operation like this. How many, um, and the outcome would be this. What we can also do is decompose the filter into two 1D com— uh, 1D vectors. Okay? This times this, what is it? Is equivalent to the original filter. Right? It’s possible because this filter is symmetric and such, but some, many of our filters are actually symmetric, like the Gaussian ones. So this is the Gaussian filter that we’ve been looking at. Can be decomposed into these two. So what I can do is instead of doing a image, 2D image convolved with a 2D filter, what I can do is do the convolution with a 1D filter and do another one with another 1D filter. Computationally, I’m not going to talk too much about it here. Computationally, there are fewer operations. Okay? So doing this with this once and then doing this with this again, suppose this, you know, this is the outcome, right? Getting the center value, 65. Okay? The amount of computation needed is actually fewer. Okay? Doesn’t look, so if, if you actually do this by your hand, um, you’re going to see that the number of computations not that much decreased, but if the size of the image grows, if the size of the kernel grows, then it’s going to actually matter a lot. Okay? And this is only possible because, um, we’re doing convolution. Why? Because what we can do is A convolved with, I’m just going to use this as a convolution. Okay? This is what we have. So if this is A, this is B, suppose this filter H is the com— uh, convolution of A and B. Then what we can do is, what is it? Let’s see. F. Okay? This is equivalent to, this is a star sign, star sign. This is equivalent to A, but before doing that with the B, you do the B convolved with F and then do the convolution with the A. Okay? This property coming from the convolution, the associative property, allows us to do that. Okay? Cross-correlation, not possible. So that’s one significant difference. Um, okay. Not true, so don’t worry about this. Um.

There’s a thing called the hybrid image. It’s came, it came from a, some conference, um, from literally 19 years ago, 2006. So you see the same image. These two people are seeing the same image. One person sees it very up close. The other person sees it from far away. Okay? So this guy is going to look at the image and have this impression. This lady is going to look at the image and going to have this impression. Okay? How does it work? From far away, you’re not able to catch all these small details, high frequency information. Okay? So you’re only going to be looking at large detail, low frequency, blurry image. Okay? Um, from up close, you’re going to start noticing more and more, you know, fine-grained details. Okay? And you’re going to not care too much about the, the overall, um, shapes. Okay? So what actually ends up happening, the way to create this sort of an image is just literally adding these two images together. Okay? This really is an image of an, an angry guy. Okay? Um, but it’s blurry. So you cannot really, you cannot actually notice that when you’re up close. So this blurry detail cannot be noticed, it’s hard to notice when you’re up close. This fine-grained details like this, like eyebrows and such, are much more noticeable up close, but difficult to notice when it’s further away. This is much more noticeable. Okay? So this sort of an hybrid image, the way to create that is extremely simple. One, um, you have two images of your interest. Um, the one that you want to make it look like from far away, you make it smooth. Okay? You throw away all these small details. Ones that you want to, um, uh, I guess recognize when you’re close to the image, you remove the, the, uh, the smooth area. Basically, remember this sharpening filter? You’re only going to be getting this sharper, sharp detail and then you add these two and this is what we get. Okay? So, uh, going to talk about this Laplacian of Gaussian later on. So another image. I think I believe it’s a cheetah and tiger. So if we make the image large, then you kind of see the tiger. If you make the image small, you don’t see the tiger, you see this blurry image of this other one. Also similar. So you have this, uh, what this is showing is like an interpolation. Okay? As this goes gets small, uh, smaller and smaller and smaller, you’re getting closer and closer to the surprised, um, face, uh, expression. And when it’s large, you’re keeping, like, not sure if it’s a sad face, but, um, going from sad to surprised. So, it’s just a fun application just using this filtering. Okay? Um, hmm. Ended sooner than I expected. So plan for the next two lectures. Do I have more? Okay. I’m going to talk, spend probably 10 more minutes.

Talk about the filters. Okay? Um, we’re going to talk about how to use that to start capturing information, patterns. First pattern of our interest, repeated pattern, is texture. Texture really is just repeated patterns. Okay? And how do we actually detect these sort of patterns? Design kernels that kind of look like these textures. Okay? So these are all different patterns that we want to recognize. We want to be able to tell it has these polka dot patterns, it has these vertical patterns, horizontal patterns, and circular patterns and such. Okay? Why do we want to analyze textures? Um, very important how we perceive objects depending on the texture, we’re going to be perceive, we’re going to be perceiving images completely differently. Okay? Same, similar shapes, almost the same shapes, but depending on the texture, it’s going to be either just normal horse or zebra. Okay? Depending on the textures or the shapes of these dots, I guess, it’s going to be two different animals. Same object can also have different textures. And, and in more modern, um, deep learning techniques, the texture was, um, maybe I’ll talk about it later in the, uh, of the course. Textures are what models are extremely fixated on. Used to be fixated on. So it cared a lot about the textures, much more than we had intended. We thought it was, we thought it was looking at shapes, but it was very, very focusing on textures. Okay? So, texture representation. Texture, uh, textures are made up of repeated local patterns. Okay? We’re talking about local patterns. And it’s repeated. It’s basically what we can do with the filters. We can look for, repeatedly look for local patterns. Basically what, uh, our filtering process is. So use filters that look like a patterns, okay, like spots, bars, and, and we’re going to be considering the magnitude of the response. Remember that edge filter that I showed you? The kernel looked like this. Two, one, one, zero, zero, zero, minus one, minus two, minus one. Okay? This kind of resembles the shape of the vertical edge. Okay? So, and this is basically what we’re going to be doing. If we want to detect circles, then what we’re going to have is have a kernel where the center pixels of the kernel, this is H, have some non-zero values and then zero values outside, right? Makes sense because if we put this circular H, um, kernel and suppose in this image there is a circle. We move this thing around the image and once it falls exactly on top of this circle, it’s going to match the size of the, the H and then it’s going to multiply non-zero values and then the outcome is going to be, right, outcome of this would be a very, very strong signal at the center of that circle. So it’s not as complicated as it looks. Detecting textures meaning we’re going to be designing filters that look like patterns of our interest, textures of our interest. Okay?

And then we’re going to be, after we collect information, um, we’re going to be describing their, their statistics. Statistics, um, in a way, uh, it has very broad, uh, I guess uses, but, um, basically the textbook definition of statistics is just a summary. Okay? Um, not talking about complicated things. Literally any of these are, all of these are statistics. Mean is a statistic. Why? Because we have a set of numbers and I’m describing one of its characteristics, one of its, it’s a one way of summarizing a set of numbers. Minimum of the numbers that we have. Maximum of the numbers that we have. Okay? Average of the numbers. Okay? These are just summarizing the characteristics of the set of values that we have. That’s really what the statistics are. Okay? Nothing really complicated. This is the deviation, the variance of the numbers that we have. One way to characterize. Okay? A combination of those is going to give us some idea of the set of the numbers that we have and then that’s essentially the statistics. Okay? So mean is a statistic. Max is also a statistic. We sometimes call the min, uh, min statistic, max statistic, and this and that. Okay? So statistics, summary. Any sort of a summary. Median is also one. You can also design something on your own. I’m going to say I’m going to maybe take the, the mean divided by the standard deviation. Okay? This is actually not, uh, not new. It’s very commonly used. It, it has a slightly different meaning, slightly different way of characterizing the values that you have. Okay? So we’re going to be using the word statistic a lot. A lot of the things that you thought were just characteristics are really just statistics.

So, let’s start with designing a filter. Um, derivative of a Gaussian filter. Now, um, here’s where things can get a little bit interesting. You know what the Gaussian filter is. You know what the derivative, the gradient filter is. Okay? So the derivative is, um, the change, right? The change, uh, and the Gaussian filter is the one that looks like a mountain. Okay? So this is the X-direction derivative of the Gaussian filter. So what used to be like this, you take the derivative along the X-direction, you get this down and up shape and this is kind of what it looks like from the top. Doesn’t this resemble that edge filter that we saw before? Right? One, two, one, negative one, negative two, negative, negative one, and then zeros at the center. It’s very, very resembling the vertical edge filter of our interest, but it’s also smooth in a way. Okay? I’m going to talk about why it’s very important to create a filter that is actually smooth. Okay? So this is the X-direction gradient of the Gaussian filter. This is the Y-direction gradient of the Gaussian filter. We’re going to be using these two filters. One for detecting the vertical edge, one for detecting the horizontal edge. So, first, this is the original image and we’re going to be applying the, um, vertical, uh, horizontal edge filter. So it’s actually computing the difference between top region and the bottom region of this within the window. Obviously we have, we’re going to be, we’re going to be having high response, okay, basically high, uh, high valued outcomes when there are strong, where there are strong, uh, horizontal areas like this. Okay? This vertical edge, very strong vertical edges here, right? But do they actually show up? No. Completely dark. Right? But the areas where there are a lot of horizontal edges, especially the areas that are strong, very apparent, high outputs, high values. Uh, here, it’s neither, um, vertical nor horizontal. So we’re not actually seeing a lot of high response here. Right? So, derivative filter responses and we intentionally squared them to have some high, uh, positive values. This is detecting the vertical edges. Changing, changing difference bet— uh, the difference between the left and the right regions. Obviously, uh, high response here, but we’re not seeing any response where there are zero horizontal, uh, zero vertical but only horizontal edges. Right?

We’re going to be doing is, so we’ve basically just applied the filters. Now, now what? We need to start summarizing this image. Okay? How do we summarize them? We’re going to pick some windows. We’re going to, we’re going to, uh, compute the statistics to summarize the patterns in small windows. So this is window one. The mean of the dy over dx, in other words, the change along the X-direction. So this. Are there, um, high values here? Not much. Approximately four, let’s say. Um, are there actually high values, um, this way? Um, dy over dx, so we’re talking about this. I’m not, I’m not really seeing anything here, but I don’t know. Oh, okay. There, so there is a very, pretty high value here. That’s why it was 10. Um, it’s due to the, um, the thickness of the box. Here, um, high response along the X-direction change. Relatively low response along the Y-direction change. So what we’re doing is for each window area, we are basically characterizing, right? Turning them into features. What are the features that we have? X-direction change and Y-direction change. In other words, vertical, uh, edges and the horizontal edges. We’re characterizing. If this value is high, that means that window has a lot of strong vertical edges. If the second feature is high, that means that window has very high, strong, um, horizontal edges. Okay? How do we describe them? Simple statistics. We’re taking the means of these values. So we’re going to be, we’re, the statistics is especially important in vision because windows, everything that we’re dealing with, we’re not just dealing with a single number in most of the cases. We’re looking at windows. We’re looking at regions. We’re looking at, even if it’s local, we’re still talking about many numbers. We need to summarize those numbers in most of the cases. Well, we need to do them in a smart way. We’re not going to just look at the pixel, uh, pictures and then just somehow get numbers. We need to turn them into features, summarize them, okay, turn them into, I guess, filter responses and then summarize them and end up with the features that are meaningful to us. This is the typical step we’ll be following throughout this course. Okay? So we can do this for many, many cases. Okay? And then, like I said, this is a feature. In a way, this is a two-dimensional feature. Dimension one, dx over dy. What is dx over dy? It’s the vertical edge. This is the horizontal edge. So we’re going to be plotting all these windows and depending on the where the windows are at. Okay? So this is maybe, um, this is window one, this is four, and this is 10 maybe. I don’t know. This is 20, comma 20. This is 18, comma seven or something. We can do this for all the windows of our interest. By looking at this, this is similar to that the, um, the juice example that we saw with the feature representation, right? Now we’re able to actually look at these points and have some idea of the characteristic of the window. The idea of feature is not, not, not complex. It’s basically we have some information within the image. I’m going to turn that into some numerical representation. But numerical representation, okay, like a vector, it needs to make sense somehow. So such that if we plot it, if we look at these points, we’re not looking at the actual windows, right? We’re looking at the feature representations of the windows. But if we, um, what we can expect from these, uh, these three points, they have high feature one value, high feature two value. Meaning those windows, whatever they belong to, they probably came from somewhere within the image, right? Those windows, we can expect many horizontal and vertical edges together. Okay? So there needs to be a reasonable mapping between these two. Mapping is a, just a basically a relationship. So one way to, the reason why we’re trying to featurize this information is want to be able to understand the characteristics such that if we just look at the features like this, um, so these, these windows, they probably only have or have very strong vertical edges only. Very weak horizontal edges. Here, very strong horizontal, basically no vertical edges. Here, nothing. Okay? This is the numerical representation of the images of our interest. We’re the one who designed it. We designed the features. We’re the one who actually came from with the statistics such that the feature that we have from the image, okay, to the statistics, it actually starts making sense. Um, yeah. Basically what I just said with, um, okay. Let me quickly take the attendance and just let you go. So after you take the attendance, you can just leave. Okay? Um.