Okay, um, so first class for Intro to Computer Vision, um, CS 3116. Um, I'm your instructor, and today we'll mostly talk about logistics. Yeah? And, um, those of you who are coming in, we're not going to be taking attendance for the first week due to the, um, the drop and add period, okay? So everyone just gets the, um, the free attendance for the first week. So just to, um... uh, go over some course info. Um, Tuesday, um, 12:00 to 12:50. And Thursday, um, 1:00 PM to 2:50. I usually end at around, um... like this. And I usually take about five to ten minute break in between, okay? And the location is here. And here's my email. Um, there's a syllabus that I'll be sharing, wh— which everyone can access. Okay? Um, and there's my personal office is the Engineering Park 439B. So if you have any questions, um, do send me an email if you want to, um, chat in person. There are, um, some optional textbooks. Not needed. Not— not test you on the things that are on this, um... that I don't cover. So I'm only going to, uh, test you on the things that I cover during the class. So slides are sufficient. But these are some foundational textbooks. Um, not as fancy as the ones that we're seeing these days, but are very, um... I guess symbolic. So if you're interested in computer vision, um, here's where you can start. Um, and most of the slides are from Professor Adriana Kovashka at Pitt. And all the slides will be uploaded— these slides are, um, already on LearnUs right now. And I'll be uploading the slides before the class starts.

Programming language. As you probably most of you already have heard from somewhere, we'll be using MATLAB or Octave. Uh, it's very easy. Okay? The programmings are not... it's just not very difficult. Um, if you're Yonsei students, you can download them for free. Okay? If you're not Yonsei students, um, there's something that you can also use for free. Um, slightly slower, but things that we'll be talking about in this class, all the assignments can be done on Octave. Okay? So it's— even if you're not— even if you're Yonsei students, you can still use Octave because it's lighter and such. Doesn't really matter, okay? I'm mostly going to be looking at the results, um, the images to make grades, okay? Um, gonna be doing some sh— sh— not sure if it's going to be a short tutorial or a recorded video of the tutorial. Um, but I don't think you're going to be having issues with the programming assignments these days, okay?

The course structure. Um, it's— it's probably finalized. It's not tentative. Um, there are lectures. There's attendance. I'm going to talk about this. It's 10% of the course. Uh, there are about six programming assignments. Um, some easier than the other ones. And the final exam— final exam is 30%. We do not have the midterm. Okay? Final exam is going to be covering everything, um, within the class. So 30%, 10%, and total of 60% for the, um, programming assignments, equaling 100%. Talking about the attendance. Uh, the first week, uh... or the first two lectures. So Tuesday and Thursday of this week, I will not be taking the attendance, um, due to the— the, you know, some of you may not be here and some of you will be joining the course and such. So I'm only going to be using the electronic attendance. So I'm going to be showing you some four-digit code in the middle of the class, okay? Um, sometimes I forget. Um, you don't have to come up to me. It means just free attendance. I usually take it after 10 or 15 or 20 minutes into the lecture. Um, so as long as you are, you know, come to the class within the first 20 minutes, just going to be okay. So do not check in with your student ID. Kind of... there's a little bit of a conflict if you take the attendance through the attendance and you sign in through that code... uh, the tag. Uh, makes things complicated. So only the electronic attendance. Four-digit code.

You're allowed to miss one lecture without penalty. Meaning at the end of the, uh— end of the semester, I'll be counting the number of, um, absence. Um, I'll take one off. So meaning it's okay to just freely miss one lecture without letting me know. Okay? After that, you'll be losing 0.5 percent per missing lecture. That means so if you— the total score for this course is 100 points. Attendance is 10. Missing one, that's fine. Missing two, that means you get 9.5% instead of 10%. Missing another, you get 9%. Okay? So it is pretty important. It— it does sum up and will make some difference. So try to come to class. If there are some emergency issues like medical reasons and such, um, try to reach out to me before the absence and show me some proof of your reasoning. Okay? Usually it's— it's not that complicated. Just let me know. Then, um, there won't be any issues. Okay? Are there any questions about the attendance? No. Okay.

Expected workload. Uh, this class moves pretty fast. I'm not sure if this is true these days. Um, it does require a decent— not too much, decent amount of work. Uh, programming assignments probably every two weeks. Not one, okay? Two to three weeks. Six to twelve depending on how well you use the AI tools. Um, probably fewer. This class is— used to be 4116. So if you see some lecture slides showing CSI or C whatever 4116, it used to be for the fourth years. Um, but uh... not... it used to be for fourth years, but it's— many, um, third years still took the class. So, um, starting from this year, just changed the number to 3116. Okay? Um, doesn't mean that the class got easier or harder. Just doesn't mean anything. It just tries to imply that third years are also welcome to take this course even though some second years. Okay? Um, zero tolerance for cheating. I do occasionally find cheating occasions and let's not do that. Um, personal mistakes and excuses. Since you're not first or second years, I'll be more strict about these.

What you can expect. Um, this is not a fancy computer vision course. Um, there will be more fancy, um, deep learning based modern, um, you know, um, courses later on. This is an introductory course. But still very foundational. Um, if you're ever serious about computer vision, um, many, uh, students these days who are into computer vision research don't know many of these basics. So I'm going to talk about the basics. And then try to finish with some modern. Not even that modern. Some getting into or preparing you for some modern CV. Okay? Not as much as deep learning as you think. There are many other courses focusing on deep learning. You can focus on those. But, uh, okay? So vision is not deep learning. It is true that vision did explode due to deep learning, but... uh... more focus on foundational computer vision, which I think is very important. Okay?

Um, what you may be able to do. These are, um, just things to think about. Um, understand how machines see and understand photos and images. So vision is all about photos and images and videos. Anything that has to do with the visual information. Some basic knowledge about some modern, okay? Again, basic. Okay? Some classic to modern. Classic means the things that we'll talk about for the first about, um, 50, 60 percent of the course. And the remaining will be modern vision. And try to understand see— see why and how modern vision techniques have evolved in such ways. So how did we end up with these, um, more modern techniques? Okay? Um, and identify pitfalls. So disadvantages where, um, things can go bad with the modern, um, visions or old ones. And if you see some techniques, um, you may be able to at least guess what kind of a foundational, um, method is behind that vision or machine learning techniques that you see, um, these days. And eventually if you're interested in using these to solve some other, um, problems in other, um, areas like medicines, um, social science and s— and such, maybe able to hopefully find a appropriate— not advanced but just appropriate, which is more important— be able to find appropriate techniques and methods for you to solve them. And just getting into this field. Okay?

Um, collaboration policy. You'll do your work, exams, and homework assignments individually, obviously. But you are allowed to talk about them with your classmates. Discuss them. But don't copy, okay? Everything has to be turned in, um, on your own and must be done on your own. But again, I'm— you're obviously allowed to discuss the assignments. But just try not to look at each other's codes and then copy them. Okay? Uh, you're not allowed to search for code online. Um, it's... there's nothing about ChatGPT. It can't really do much about them. So that's why this exam proportion is growing and growing. Okay? Used to be like 20%, 15, 20%. Now it's 30% because that's— that's just how it has to be. Okay? Um, first offense will get zero on the, uh... on that specific assignment. And will let the school know that thing happened. Uh, second offense will be, um, will fail the class and will, you know, go to the, um, disciplinary, um, penalty things. Um, asking for solutions here and there is obviously not allowed. Uh, just be honest about... uh, the assignments.

So this is the syllabus link that I have on LearnUs as well. So let's go to the syllabus and just briefly, um, see what the— what it looks like. This is actually my, um, lab website. So you can find some other research topics that we're working on as well. Uh, so upper right, courses. You'll see. Uh, all the basic stuff that I just mentioned. Uh, we have four TAs. Don't reach out to TAs. Um, reach out to me first. And if I don't respond, then best thing is to come talk to me after the cour— uh, after the class. Um, TAs are not even know— they don't even know that they're TAs for this course yet. Okay? So, um, don't let them know yet. Uh, they'll probably help you help me out with the final exam. Okay? And the, um, homework assignment grading. But most of the times I do the homework grading. That's why sometimes it's a little bit late. Um, but I l— I like to make fair, um, decisions and best decisions as much as possible. So it's slow but, um, I try to do them on my own.

Um, again, the same thing. Textbooks. What I do want to talk about is, um... oh, homework submission. Do I have slides on homework submission? Um, no. Homework submissions. Um, most of the times I'm going to specify the date and it's going to be always going to be, um, due on the 11:59 PM. Just to avoid confusion. Okay? Um, you'll submit your homework on LearnUs. Um, have I talked about the penalty of the homework? Um... this is the attendance. Oh, homework late policy. Here it is. Um, every time you are late by one day, so, uh, you lose 50 per— uh, 25% of the, uh, the total grade. Um, not the, um, course grade but the homework assignment grade. So late day is counted based on the submission date. So for example, um, if something is due, um, on March 1st at 23:59. But it's— if it's submitted anytime between, um, March 2nd, okay? So March 2nd anytime, it is considered as one day late. Okay? If it's submitted anytime on March 3rd, it's considered as two days late. Okay? I'm usually okay with like a few seconds late. So if you submitted like 23... I don't know, 59 minutes some seconds, that's okay. Okay? But as long as as soon as the date changes, that means one day late. That means even if you do get the perfect score on the homework assignment, if it's late by four days, then you get zero. Okay? Um, and it's not 25% of your grade— uh, of the graded score. It's the just the total score. Okay? So all the homework assignments are going to be out of 50 points just to be convenient. Um, if you got 40 out of 50, but it was, um, submitted two days— uh, two hours late, that means it's one day late. That means you're going to be losing 25% of the 50 points, which is 12.5. So you're going to be getting 27.5 out of 50. Okay? So try to submit it soon. Never be late. Um, okay?

Course policies the same. Um, if you have— if you need help with the exams and such, let me know. Um, all these medical conditions. Do let me know before the deadline. Okay? And, uh... what does it say? To ensure free and open discussion ideas, students may not record classroom lectures. I do the recording for you. So probably not— don't need to pay attention to this. So I'll be uploading everything. Every lecture. Um, okay? This is the full course schedule. It doesn't look nice. Um, this is what it looks like. It's an approximate schedule of the course. Um, I don't think you're allowed to edit. You can only view, um, if you need it. Uh, there are few things, uh, I want to talk about. Uh, September 23rd and 25th, um, I'll be at Daejeon. So, um, no lectures. No in-person lectures. I'll be uploading some online recordings from previous courses. Um, and there's Chuseok. Obviously no lectures. Midterm week, no lectures. And full lectures. Okay? Um, if, uh, if the fif— uh, 15th week, if we're a little behind, uh, we may have in-person. But never really happened. So just to let you know. And if there are homework assignments out, I'll try to record it here. So I'll let you know when it is out and when it is due for you to keep track of it. But I usually, um, let you know at the beginning of the course about the how— um, when the homework's going to be out and when it is due. Okay? Do you have any questions about any of these? Everything? Um, nothing? No? Okay.

I'll be, uh... so all the homework related files are going to be, um, uploaded on LearnUs. But the instructions are going to be here. Okay? Again, I'll let you know when we, um, are at that point. Academic integrity. Things we talked about. Resources. Again, few more things that we talked about. Tutorials are here. So, um, never really talk about a lot of those. Just for your references. Okay? So if, um, this is the syllabus for you to check out if, um, you're lost and confused. Okay? Last... last question? Yeah?

The textbooks are going to be... not going to be used for this course. No textbooks are going to be used for this course. Those are just for your references. Oh, um, the final exam is going to be on the last day of the course. Uh, of the entire lecture as I try to show here. Um, oh, let's see. Right? So 18th Thursday. Two hour. We're going to be, uh, taking the exam here. Exam is probably going to take approximately an hour. Okay? In person in this— in this room. So just keep that in mind. Okay? Questions? Okay. Um, I'll end the lecture here and we'll talk— start with the real lecture, um, this Thursday.