Almost done with the gradient descent. So the gradient descent is, you know, we're updating the weights based off the gradients. It's called the learning rate, some eta greater than zero. We're using that to control the speed of the, the descent. Um. So, so, let's kind of skip through this part. We subtract the gradient with respect to the model parameters. I've been repeatedly talking about these, um, these aspects. So, how to compute the gradient? I talked about the mini-batch gradient. Um, and this is where, uh, we, I believe we pretty much left off. Um. You're kind of seeing this sort of a, what we call the learning curve. Um. So as the, the model sees more data, more samples, which means that the epoch, epoch goes up, the loss, ideally we want the loss to go down. That means the, the model, the weights are actually getting better and better. Uh, but you can actually have different, I guess, shapes of the descent. Um. So the yellow one is when you have a very high learning rate. It means you're basically overshooting. Um. So this is with respect to different types of learning rates. So, I'm talking about, uh, this part. Okay. So when the learning rate is very high, um, you're going to be immediately realizing that, uh, loss is actually not going down. Okay. Low learning rate, it's actually making, uh, it's making progress but too slow. Okay. Uh, if it's reasonably high, um, it'll eventually, uh, the loss will go down, but it'll be stuck at some sort of a local minima. Not a good local minima. If it has a, just a, uh, has a good learning rate, so you got to, it's basically up to you to identify the good value of eta. Okay. Uh, typically try them out. Um, in term, uh, so we usually do some sort of what we call the grid search. So we don't exactly know how to search for this value. So we need to empirically test it. Basically you try and check, try and check. Try different types of eta. Um, but it's not like you're checking like 0.1, 0.2 all the way to like 100 or something. What you do is typically have a larger, um, I guess a larger interval. So let's say, um, e to the negative five, e to the negative four, one e to the negative three, all the way up to e to the five or something. So a little bit extreme. Okay. A little bit extreme, but this gives you a very, very coarse range of the learning rates that you should be focusing on. So instead of just incrementing it by, like 0.1 all the way from this value to that value, you look for roughly some sort of a, uh, some sort of, I guess the scale of the learning rate that you should be checking. Okay. This really depends on your application. This really depends on your dataset, model, and everything. So typically this is the first thing you'll be checking. Um, and you'll be seeing a bunch of different shapes of curves. It'll shoot, it'll overshoot, it'll just not, nothing's going to happen. Maybe it'll just go crazy up and down. We don't exactly know. That's why you try them and check them out. If you have some reasonably looking shapes, let's say between, uh, across these three values, e to the negative four, e to the negative three, or e to the negative two, then you do slightly more fine-grained search within these values. So, you already searched for this value. So what you'll be doing is, um, basically, so this is what, 0.0001 I believe, um, and that e to the negative two is 0.01. So you'll be checking some values in between them. Again, in a pretty coarse manner, uniform manner. I'm not going to be checking, uh, I'm not going to be incrementing by 0.00001 all the way up until this value. That means I'll have to try this 100 times. Not practical. So maybe, um, I'll increment it by, I don't know, um, this is just a very rough guess. Maybe I can do it by increment by 0.0, um, 0.001 all the way up until 0.01 or something. Okay. Um, it's really up to you and then you start basically, uh, narrow down the scope. Um, again, it doesn't have to be perfect. You're not going to be able to find like the perfect learning rates because it's all empirical. But once you find that you're going to be able to see your learning rate, so it's not going to be as smooth as this, it's more going to be like this, but it'll actually go drop and then it'll just kind of stay at the bottom. Ideally speaking. Okay. It'll fluctuate. Okay. Um, then again, with this, this is the learning rate with respect to the training. Okay. Perfect training does not, perfect training does not actually mean the perfect testing, right? As you know. So, um, training, looking at this training, uh, loss curve is the, I guess the basic thing, the first thing that you should be looking at because, um, there's a series of steps that you need to be taking when you're training models. I want to check this, I want to check that. Learning rate is one thing, weights are the other, number of layers, different types of losses, different things that you should be looking at. Learning rate is typically, uh, typically the one that you immediately identify and then kind of fix and never look back. Okay. And it does not need to be perfect. It just needs to be making a reasonable curve. Okay. Um, you're not looking for zero loss. You're looking for just something that tells you the model is actually learning. So the first thing that you need to be looking at before you make any other changes to the model is to ensure that the model is actually learning something. Okay. Once the model is actually learning something, that's when you actually making, when you, that's when you actually start making changes to the model. Right? If the model is just not able to learn anything, no matter what changes that you make, so let's say the number of layers or loss, loss function, different types of loss functions or some other techniques, nothing, nothing's going to matter if your model is not, not learning anything in the first place. Right? So you try to ensure your model is actually learning something by first checking the loss curve of the training dataset. This is the minimal sanity check that you should be doing to ensure that you're actually starting from something meaningful. Okay. Therefore, whatever changes that you make, whatever explorations that you do with respect to the model actually has some sort of meaningful reference. That's when you know things get better or worse. Okay. So typically I tell, uh, when someone trains a model, this is the first thing that they need to ensure. Okay. And then, and then that's when you, um, check the test set and then realize, okay, my model is learning at least trying to learn and the test set therefore is somewhat meaningful. Okay. If you see anything like this, you should probably be trying to make sure that your curve is stable first and then, um, do whatever you want to do afterwards. Okay. So, first checklist is typically this. Gradient descent in multiple layers. So, the gradient descent that I've been talking about is just a simple, simple perceptron. So we'll update the weights, but then what we, what we do is, um, so we'll be doing the gradient descent. But what we did was we had just a single input and then a single output. What if we have multiple layers? We basically do it layer by layer from top, um, top to bottom. Okay. And that's what, what's called the back, uh, the backpropagation. And I don't know why this slide is randomly placed here, but, um, I believe the PDF that you have says 2024-2 and the, the time is 11 AM what you had before. I changed it to reflect this semester's. Um, happens to be the same date. Uh, time is 1 PM. Basically, uh, it's, it's all, they're all on the syllabus as you know. So this is nothing, nothing, nothing new there. I'm just trying to, so there's approximately, you know, one month left. So just telling you that the exam is going to be on Thursday, December 18th. This class, this classroom, this time. I will make a more formal announcement about this. So even if you miss this, you know, you don't have to take pictures or anything. I'm going to be making the same announcement. They're all on the syllabus anyways. Um, approximately 25 questions, approximately 40 minutes. They're mostly going to be multiple choice and mostly going to be short answers. We're going to be covering everything. Um, but then again, uh, the amount of details that I'll be asking is proportional to the amount of time that I spent talking about it. Right? So if I have not really spent that much talking about something, then I'm not going to ask you much about it. Right. So things are going to be reasonable. The thing is that, and then there is no hand coding, so I'm not going to, I'm not going to ask you to code anything. Same time there is no cheat sheet. So just try to, um, I'm going to be try to, I'm going to be reasonable about this. So not going to be asking you to like memorize a lot of things. So just review as best as you can. Things are going to be reasonable. Um, not going to be asking you for very, uh, heavily computational heavy questions. Okay. So it's a pretty standard exam. Okay. Um, the, I believe the averages were typically around 60 to 70%. Um, but yeah, that's typically how the exams are. Um. Yeah, just bring pen and pencils and IDs, all the, all the details I'm going to be making the announcements, um, a few weeks before then. Okay. Are there any questions about the exam? Not going to be asking anything about the homework. Um, obviously things that, uh, um, that you've done during the homework assignments are from the, the lecture slides. So, um, in that sense, you know, things are going to be asked from the homework, but I'm not going to be directly asking you, asking you about, you know, in homework 2 or something. I'm not going to be referring to homework assignments or anything. Just all based off of the lecture slides. Okay. So if you have, if you have questions, well, let me know later on. So backpropagation. Um, backpropagation is one thing that I'm not going to be asking a lot on the exam because it's just a pure computation. No one really cares about this, um, as much. I'm just going to give you the overall concept. So, first calculate the error. So what we've seen before is just this part. So these are the weights and we have some sort of a loss coming from the calculation of this output and then we propagate it back and then change the weights, right? But now we have many, many cases of that. So first calculate the error of the output, output units and use it to change the top layer. Take the input, it actually makes the feed forward process. So you go all the way up and then you get some numbers, right? At the end. Compare this with the, um, true label like you know. And then with respect to this, so the error also is going to be with respect to this. So each one is going to have a some sort of a loss. So calculate the, um, calculate how to update the weights into J with respect to the change of whatever this is. So this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one. Okay. So, well, let's go back. Okay. So you calculate the update the weights. So change the these, these, uh, red Ws, so red lines, Ws of these red edges are actually updated. And then the Ws of these should also be updated then. Calculate the error for the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. So I can actually compute the error of this. Okay? Error of whatever this hidden unit is based off of the error up here. So it actually propagate back. I'll talk about that soon. Suppose I can compute this, then what, what can I do? I can also compute the change with respect to all the Ws connected to this. Okay. And I'll be doing this for this and then update all the weights. I'll be doing the same thing for this, update all the weights. Basically the backpropagation is updating step, the gradient descent is going to happen between one layer and the, so one hidden outputs and the inputs. What we learned before, right? It's just a simple calculation. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Change of whatever this is with respect to the weights. Same thing. We're going to be doing this, update all the weights connected to that. Compute the change of whatever this is, so this is let's say activation A. With respect to change of this with respect to the weights here. Okay. Let's say this is A1. A2 also has some sort of a change with respect to the Ws here. Okay. Uh, next calculate the errors, uh, from the hidden units based on the errors in the, of the hidden units based on the errors of the output units that feed into. Um, the order is slightly wrong. Um, you do this and then you also need to be doing this again. Um, typically you just take care of all the layers at the top and then you move on to the next one.