All right. I believe I have released Homework 4. That is due, that's Tuesday. I'm gonna finish up this set of slides. I'm gonna finish it up with this just overall pipeline of training and testing because I've been just describing these terms here and there but haven't really talked about how this entire process is gonna look like. So, this used to be a homework assignment, but with a clear instruction, but since it's not, just think of this as part of the lecture. So data sets, scene classification data sets. So first thing that we ask is what exactly is your data? It's images. It has images of scenes and each image is of size 256 by 256. In this specific data set and for this specific homework assignment, which is not for this semester, it's been resized, so reshaped to have exactly a square of 256 by 256 and also turned into a grayscale image. And I also have the true, true labels. So this would be your X's and this would be your Y's. Okay. How many examples? How many classes? You gotta be always asking these questions. Okay. There are eight classes and there are 150 images per class. So that means there are a total of 1200 images.

And so, the data set does not usually come with the training and testing set pre-defined and pre-split, so it's up to you to set them up. To set them up, you gotta first gotta be picking the ratios. So for each class, we're going to be randomly picking 100 images for training and 50 for testing. So there are eight classes. Each class has 150 images. We're going to be picking 100 for training, 50 for testing. Okay. So total, there's going to be 800 training images and 400 test images. Which is just, you can think of this as a two to one ratio. One thing that we have realized is that the way that we're splitting it, what are we ensuring? We are trying to ensure that the training and test, training set and the test set, they have nearly identical class distributions. Right? So this is a one to one to one, so it's exactly, every class has exactly the same number of images. Right? In the original data set. And someone says, okay, we're going to be picking, we're going to be randomly pick 800 of them and then 400 of them and then first 800 training, second 400, the next 400 to be testing. There's a chance that some classes are going to be picked up more than the other ones in this training and vice versa in this testing. Right? You cannot guarantee that. But what you have to do is this balancing. So originally it has these sort of class distributions, completely perfectly even. That means you have to try to also have your training and the testing to have similar ratios of the classes. This is called the stratified splitting or stratified this, stratified that. That means you are actually ensuring that before and after the class distributions are similar.

I'm not just trying to, it's one, it's for fairness, but the other is that you have a training set and a relatively smaller test set. What we're trying to do is we're trying to train something with this training data set and we're going to test it on some test data set. And typically without really realizing what you're trying to do is whatever I learned from this distribution, this sort of knowledge, having certain distribution of this information will be nicely transferred over to this unknown test set. Right? So it's not that I'm just going for fairness. The other is that if whatever I train on this training set, you're expecting to see similar sort of distributions in this other test set. It could be that, for example, let me be extreme, very extreme. This has, let's say there's a class one and there's 150 of them, right? Originally I should be putting 100 here and 50 here. But I'm very unlucky, unfortunately, something by chance, I end up having only 10 of them here. Not 10, let's not choose 10, maybe, yeah, 10. And then there's a 140 of them here. So my training set, I'm seeing this specific class, there's only 10 examples. I'm expecting to do well on this test set which happened to be having a 140 examples. The issue is not that it has many test examples. The issue is that you're not really using proper amount of training examples for that specific class. Okay? You gotta see more to do better. But you don't want to see too many because let's look at the other case. 140 and then 10. Okay. This is an ideal case, I guess. You have more classes that you're seeing in your training set. But then what happens is your test set is going to be smaller. So instead of having 100 for training and 50 for testing, if you have 140 for training and then 10 for testing, and if you have this for eight classes, that means your class, your testing class, there's only going to be 80 of them. And the remaining, how many would be, uh, 1120. Okay? So 1120 of them are going to be in your training. What's this ratio? It's basically 14 to 1. It's not bad, but what happens is then at this point you're having this diversity of the test set issue. Okay? Some test sets are going to be, even if it's let's say the class one, some test sets are going to be, not just test sets, some examples are going to be relatively easier than the other ones, some of them are harder than the other ones. And we're always choosing this, splitting this randomly. Okay? If there are many, many, many examples, instead of let's say 1200, you have 12 million, then even if instead of having 80, you're having 80,000. Okay? Or even more. Uh, 12 million, how does that work? Oh, that means 800,000. In that case, by chance, there's going to be a pretty huge amount of examples, so good chance that it's going to have easy ones, hard ones. If the class number, the example, the sample size of the data set is getting smaller and smaller, then chance is going to have much more influence. Right? If you're very lucky, then you're going to have all these easy examples here and say, oh, I'm doing very well. If you're very unlucky, then you're going to be, there's a chance that out of these 80 of them, there are many, many hard cases. So the reason why we're trying to keep a reasonable amount of, reasonable size of the test classes is that we want to ensure the diversity and trying to make sure that what you're testing is actually representative of the original data set. This is all we really care about. It's all coming from this original data set. And we're arbitrarily splitting them into training and testing. We don't want either one of them to be too much different from the original data set. Then you're not really using the data set as it should be. You're creating some artificial classes. Okay? So balancing is, so this case again is two to one. This is a little bit more extreme. Typically what people do is eight to two. Or maybe if there are many, many examples, nine to one. But remember there is always some little bit of validation here. So what people typically do is eight to one to one. Training, validation, and test. Okay? So is there a, is there a hard rule in terms of the ratios and such? No. But splitting them while adhering to the, or preserving the class distributions is a necessity. Okay.

Training. So first thing we ask is what is the feature representation of each image? Examples, it could be the bag of words representation of the SIFT features. Okay, we're talking about each image and then each image has some vector representation. This could be that the bag of word representations. Remember we have different patches and we look for the similar patches and have the distributions of the patches and the similarities are based off the SIFT features. Okay. And then we decide which classifier we're going to be using. KNN with some K of your choice. And support vector machine with let's say linear kernel just examples. These are actually the setups they wanted for this assignment. Um, do I have what I need? So let's check. I have the X in terms of the features, not the images. I'm not using the images directly. Um, I'm just going to compute their some features beforehand, um, before I do this training. So these are features. And I have the labels. And then I also have split them into training and testing. Maybe some validation inside the training. And then the classifier of my choice. Okay. So what do I do next? Then I'm going to be using the, I'm going to be training using the training sets. Input is going to be feature representation of the training images and their labels. And going to be training classifier. KNN, there is no training. I don't do training, right? Um, SVM, support vector machine requires training. So is this the actual code? Again, it used to be a homework, so, um, you don't have to worry about it. I'm just showing you just the very, very vanilla training pipeline. Training SVM function. What do we have? Training features and the labels. This is really all you need. Right? And it's going to spit out a model. In this case, the SVM is going to be, I don't know, some W or alphas, I don't exactly know how this works, but in the end what you're going to be able to use that model to make the prediction. So I'm making the prediction. This SVM library has, can take a model and the training. So what this checks is how well does your model work on the training set. You gotta actually check. It's like a sanity check. You're making sure that your model has actually trained something. How do I know? Just test your training set itself. Okay? You taught the model with the true labels. That means it should be doing well unless your model, the data set is really messy. Um, it should be doing okay. Right? So you can get the training set prediction performance. And you can also get the training set prediction of the KNN and the SVM. Now, thing about the KNN is it has no train, it has no quote unquote models. What it has is the training set features and the training set labels. It has the points and their corresponding labels. That's what we need. And these are, I'm using, I'm going to be testing on the training set again. Okay? So let me just say examples to predict. Okay? And these are training and test examples needed for KNN predictions. And I can actually check the training set. So these are the outcomes. These are the predictions. So this has many, many X's and it's the prediction of those X's and we typically represent it with a Y with the, um, that this thing on top of it, uh, it's called Y hat. Um, so I'm going to be then comparing, see if my prediction is equal to my prediction is equal to the actual label. So this is the true label. This is the predicted label. And I can measure some sort of an accuracy. Basically counting the number, the ratio of the correct, the matches versus the misclassifications.

So testing. So that's all part of the training. Testing. What do I do? Now just do everything with the test set. Input feature representation of the test images and labels. There is no training obviously, but we're done with the training. All I need to do is do the same thing, do the predictions except with the test set features. So test X's. X test. This again with the X test. But KNN still needs the training set features and the labels to function basically. Right? So we're testing on this and we have the prediction and we get their accuracies. Okay? Based off of the accuracies, I can do some basic analysis. Um, did my model overfit? In other words, I'm going to be checking the training accuracy versus the test accuracy. If the training accuracy is like 40 and the test accuracy is 38, um, it could be an underfitting, meaning your training is just not done properly, has not been done properly. Or it could be that it's just an extremely hard problem. Okay? Um, at least it's not overfitting because the gap between these two are not large. But when you observe overfitting is the training accuracy is very high, but the test accuracy is relatively much, much lower. That means it's probably very, very fixated on this training examples and thus the overfitting happens. Easy, easy first thing. That's probably the first thing that you're going to alert you if this happens. Can I improve the model? Now if, um, ideally that you want high training and high testing, but what if that's not the case? There's no overfitting, but maybe there's, I don't know, 80 or something and then 75. Maybe there's reason, for some reason you think you can improve this. Then that's when you start tweaking the model related what we call the hyperparameters. Hyperparameters. Okay? Such as the K for KNN or the distance functions of the KNN. Or just testing out different kernels and then slack variables. Not the actual, no, slack variables, but the, the gamma in front of the slack variable summations, remember? You can check this. Should I let large margins while sacrificing the misclassification or should I be make it tighter? Okay? This is the, and then you with the new, new setup, you go back and then repeat this entire process again and then come back and test it and then the entire process again. Just keep on repeating. Okay? This is the very, very basic training and testing pipeline of just machine learning, not just vision, but just typical machine learning. Okay. Um, I'm gonna skip this. It's not too important.

So the last set of slides is the bag of words features, spatial pyramid matching for recognizing natural scene categories. These are all super famous people these days. Okay. Scene category data set. There are how many classes? 15 classes. And these will be the bag of feature representations. Remember this? We've done, uh, we've done this. Um, I'm not gonna go through this. It's basically repetition. Now, feature extractions. What they try to do is they need to first extract the features and then do the bag of words matching, right? So strong features are actual SIFT descriptors. Quantized, um, regular grid. So each circle is basically a patch of a SIFT feature. Okay? Just cover the entire image. It also used what they call the weak features. Um, relatively weaker. So edge points at two scales and then eight orientations. So they derive some sort of an edge based features. Okay? Not as strong as this, but it turned out, they gonna show that this is somewhat useful. Now, um, worst thing about the, the bag of word features is that it does not care about the geometry. It does not care about the spatial layout. So what this is showing is that all three images have the same intensity color histogram. Okay? So this used to be original image. What they did is rearrange it, randomly just shuffle the color pixels. You have basically meaningless image, but then the image, the color histograms are the same. This is a, um, some sort of a, uh, gradation. And then still same image turned into a different format just by rearranging these pixels. Therefore, spatial layout is completely ignored when you do the bag of word. So what they try to do is spatial pyramid. They, it's kind of like a SIFT feature cell division process. I'm going to be computing the histogram in each spatial bin. So entire image and then four quadrants and then sub-quadrants. Okay? So think of it like this. Uh, these are all different features. At the level zero, you look at the entire image and then you have the histograms of these let's say some shapes. And then you have the second level. You look at them separately. So you're going to be taking the histogram, so each quadrant has a histogram. Upper left one has this amount of circle, this amount of diamond, and this amount of plus. Upper right one, circle, diamond, plus. Right? And then you have even smaller one. This cell has this, this, this, and such. Okay? This, what this allows us to do is at level zero, all three of them have the same, um, I guess the histograms of the features. Right? But then at level one, we're looking at this, this, and this. Obviously these are now start going to be having different histograms. Right? Because we have actually divided them into different parts. So we have kind of enforced spatial differences. So we don't actually look at the entire image. We're going to be looking at them locally. So locally they start having differences. How to enforce locality? These sort of divisions. Okay?

So this is a typical table that you're going to be seeing. This is a result table. So they've done, they've done many experiments. Now what they try to show is typically what they try to show in this research paper is that theirs is, um, the best. And what they have implemented are meaningful and useful and are not just some random lucks. So, uh, on the left, we have the, let's look at each column. These are the levels. So looking at the zero level, you're only using level zero. You're only using level one, level two, level three. That's when it means to have a single level. Okay? So you can perform all this entire process, but it's up to you to choose the types of features. Level zero single level means you're only using level zero. Level one single level means you're only using level one. Only level two and only level three. The pyramid is, see how the zero has a, is empty? It means, um, it's just using whatever up to that point. So there's nothing, um, there's no other level than the level zero at starting from level zero. So this number is basically going to be equal to this one, right? Because there's nothing to, nothing to merge. Level one pyramid means that you're using level zero and level one. Level two pyramid means that you're using level zero, one, and two. Level three means you're using level zero, one, two, and three. Okay? So first thing you gotta be realizing is that, okay, first I am, uh, pyramid, you should be expecting that the pyramid is better than the single level. Um, and that is actually the case. So instead of using just level zero, level one, using level zero and one is better. Level two, using level one, two, three, zero, one, two is better than just using two. Okay? Um, and on the left is the weak features and on the right is the strong features, the SIFT features. What you can observe is that the just by using a strong feature rather than the edge based features, single level level zero is already better than the four, all four level pyramid setting. Okay? So it's also showing the vocabulary size. You know what the vocabulary size is, right? It's basically the number of patches or the cluster that you're doing for the. So overall the feature dimension is 16 versus 200. So it's a much stronger feature. Stronger feature. The point is that this pyramid, does it actually work, uh, apply, it can be applied to strong features, but does it work well? And what you're seeing is that as you're adding more levels, the best turned out to be zero, one, and two. Not zero, one, two, and three. Okay? Still, it's the second best, but the best turns out is the zero, one, two, and three. Uh, single levels are all inferior compared to the pyramid. Okay? It seems like the level three, uh, there is a drop in performance this way. It's probably seeing, I'm thinking that level three itself is just not a useful feature. Okay? So it's not that the pyramid is bad. It's just saying level three single level is worse than level two single level. Okay? It's actually worse than level one single level. That means level three is just not good enough. Okay?

Um, you're also seeing this plus and minus and some decimal place number. It, I know, the standard deviation of the 10 runs, random train test split. I kind of mentioned that, um, even if I split it, uh, there's always luck involved. If your model, you want to show that no matter what the cases are, it's not that our model was the best by luck, by the luck of the split, um, no matter how the, how, uh, how the test train and test split and they may have different distributions. What I do is there's a training, uh, total data set. I'm going to randomly split them. And then I run it again. I randomly split them again. Chances are the first, before and after the training test combinations are going to be different, right? So you should be expecting some difference in performance. Which is true. Okay? Because maybe the test was a little bit harder, a little bit easier. Your training had some easy examples, hard examples. So it could happen. It should be happening. It doesn't make sense for them to be perfectly equal no matter how you split them. But what you do want is that the, this standard deviation, the larger the standard deviations, more varying the results are. Okay? So instead of having let's say 45, 46, uh, 46, 44, you may, if you have like 45, 35, 55, these performances are just jumping around, right? When that happens, the standard deviation is gonna go up. Okay? So you want the standard deviation to go down, meaning your model is actually stably running or training, um, no matter what the splits are. Okay? Smaller is better. That's also another thing that you may want to point out if you're the author of this paper. Because, um, let's see. See how the standard deviations are the smallest when you actually are using this strong feature pyramid? Means this model is more stable. Okay? Compared to this, let's say. Um, but one thing that you do have to realize is, um, some cases the performance, the increase is so, so, so small. Look at this. Um, comparing 81.1 plus or minus 0.3 and you have 80.7 plus and minus 0.3. That means this performance is actually, there is a good, not, not guaranteed, but, you know, very high chance that out of, so this is the average of the 10 runs. Okay? And if this is the standard deviation, there is a pretty good chance that a number that is smaller than this, let's say 80, I don't know, 80.6 could have been one of the 10 results. Okay? And maybe some of them are actually higher, like 81.7 or something. Overall it was about this much. Now the bottom one is also could be having some results that is slightly higher, like 81.0 or slightly lower, like 80.3 or something. The point is that, okay, these two numbers are so close to each other that this amount of standard deviation is probably gonna guarantee that sometimes this, this setup, out of the 10 runs, so this had 10 runs and this had 10 runs. There are some cases where this is worse than this and some cases where this is better than this. Okay? So this sort of a difference is almost based off of luck. Okay? So what people typically do, um, in not in AI field, but what people also sometimes show is to show the statistical significance. Now this number, I'm going a little bit in depth than I intended. This number is a combination of let's say 10 runs, 10 results. What can I get with the 10 results? Some sort of a distribution where the mean is at what? 81.1. Right? So this distribution looking shape is based off of the 10 experiments that have ran. This is the centered at 81.1. And then standard deviation is approximately gonna be, um, 0.3. Now this is again 10 runs. You have another some sort of a distribution. Now the center is at assuming that it's a Gaussian or something, um, center is at 80.7. Standard deviation is about the same. Now what you're actually seeing is that you have two distributions, okay, two data set distributions for this and that where each one has 10 samples. What you can do is running the statistical significance. There is a way to statistically say these two are actually two separate distribution and are not coming from the same distributions. Okay? Um, not gonna get into this, but the point is at this point, they are different. Okay? But if this standard deviation was like 0.001 or something, if standard deviation was 0.001, that means all the numbers that comprised of this are very close to 80.7. So which is probably not gonna happen. That means we're talking about two extremely sharp distributions. There is no way that they're gonna coming from the same distribution. Okay? Very low chance. But because the numbers are so close to each other and the standard deviations are basically on the border of these two, some may say that these two results are statistically not different. Okay? That's a very, very rigorous way of testing and then stating that one is better than the others or in other words, one is different than the other from the other one. In AI we rarely do that. In the medical research, people do that. Okay? So it's not the best practice, um, but we kind of let this go because this sort of improvement is already pretty difficult. So even if these two are statistically maybe the same or not different, this improvement is still credited. Okay? So people don't just undervalue this sort of improvement. So that's the way to analyze this table. If someone gives you a table, it's very important to understand the intention under the table, um, and be able to criticize it. Okay? So that's why I spent so much time just describing how to read this table and drawing the conclusion.

Hmm. This is called the confusion matrix. This is, um, so row, we have the classes along the rows and along the columns. You're probably having this intuition. It probably has to do with the chance of predicting a specific class when the, so this row I column J. The percentage of object I classified as object J. So office office means office has been classified as object with a 92.7%. Now there are some very, um, not able to see the colors, but if there are some non-zero values, that means that that's the probability, that's the, the probability of the object, so object office classified as the corresponding object. So maybe this one. Living room has been misclassified as a bedroom with a, you know, it gets brighter and brighter, the value is high. Um, and the living room was actually classified as living room 60.4%. So what this is showing is not just right or wrong, it also shows you which one was which misclassified or confused as the what other class with exact probability. So it's based off of your result. You have the test set. You can get all these statistics by just going through them. Check all the kitchen classes and look at the distribution of the predictions that has been made. And then you just fill that out in this, in this row. Okay? So ideally you want super dark red along the diagonals indicating that all the classes were correctly classified as itself. But if there are many off-diagonal values that are lighting up, that means it's making many, many misclassifications. Um, it also shows you the pattern. Okay? Which one was more misclassified as the other ones? It's they're not just randomly misclassified. So you're seeing some sort of a blockage shape along here. What are those? These are kitchen, living room, bedroom, and store. Somehow these were kind of misclassified with each other a little bit more than the other cases. Okay? So this is a way to kind of analyze or break down the results. Not just these numbers. Um, I strongly, I often recommend my students to not just bring the numbers because sure, it tells you the overall performance, but then we're not able to actually understand the underlying, I guess the bias or which the difficult classes. This tells you which classes were difficult. And why. We need to be able to understand why they were difficult. And then you also, it also tells you which other class was it confused with. Okay? Confusion matrix is one of the most basic ways to analyze that. What is this? Is this the same table? No. Um, oh, it's a different data set. It's a Caltech 101 data set. Probably multi-class classification. Probably has many more classes, I believe. 101 classes or something. Forgot. Anyways, you see that the overall numbers are low as usual. And you're also seeing some much higher standard deviations. What it tells you is the problem itself is just much more difficult compared to the scene classification. I believe this has more classes and more variability and such. Okay. Um, okay. So that's the end of the recognition slides. Let's take the attendance and immediately move on to the next slides.

Okay. Uh, finally, we're gonna, we're talking about neural networks. Plan for the next few lectures. Why neural networks or convolutional neural networks? Talk about the basics and try to understand them. Neural network basics. So why, why do we start using them? Um, because it works. Um, basically that's it. It started working. Why did it start working? The data set. I think at some point I talked about the three, three, it's like a trinity of things. Um, data set, the models, and the resources. So data set start going up. Um, GPUs start working. The models start following up. So this ImageNet is, um, called this ImageNet challenge. Uh, you have 14 million labeled images and 20,000 classes. Uh, people have used this mechanical turks and labeled them. And then asked the people, so they kind of trimmed down the data set, um, to 1.2 million training images and then 1000 classes. So they asked for this challenge. What's the challenge? Like the Kaggle challenge. You basically publicly release this competition. They give you the data set and they ask you to upload your model and they have their own hidden test set and uh, where they take the people's uploaded models, they test it and then upload the, um, the results on the leaderboard. So this, uh, used to happen for some years, but then, uh, one year it was, uh, a neural network based model came out and then beat other models, uh, other existing non-neural network models completely. So that's when people start, started, um, looking into ways to use neural networks. Now we have the data sets, we can do this. Um, okay. ImageNet challenge. Yeah. So at that point the model, uh, came out. It's called the AlexNet. Um, because the people who made it has just used his own name. Um, looks like this. Uh, it's kind of hard to really understand what it looks like, so I'm not gonna get into this. Basically means that the model got bigger, the GPUs start coming out, so they were able to train it with, uh, faster and so on. So not gonna get into this, but the last person is, uh, Geoffrey Hinton. One of the three main guys. And then these are all obviously super famous people. So this is the error rate. Error rate. That means lower is actually better. Okay? Um, non-neural network, non-neural network, non-convnet, non-neural network, and then neural network. This sort of a drop. Okay? Um, easy win? Is this an easy win? No, not really. So again, we'll eventually talk about this. So let me just skip it. All I'm trying to say is now we're moving on to not just classifications, but also localizing the objects. So instead of just saying, hey, this is an image of something, we're also trying to localize, put what we call the bounding box around the objects. Okay? This is, uh, where it start becoming much more useful and, um, the performance start increasing due to the neural networks.

So what are CNNs? Uh, before we talk about the CNNs, we talk about neural networks. Uh, it's a type of, type of a neural network with layers that perform special operations. Uh, it looks actually way easier than it looks. Uh, you already have all the knowledge to be able to understand. So used in vision but also natural language processing, bio-medical and etc. Often deep. So says input layer, output layer and you're not, it's okay to not understand everything right now. I'm just very roughly describing all the terminologies. There is something goes in. Looks like it. You can take some sort of a feature. Right? And then something comes out. Looks like each one can be like a probability of a class. Exactly what's happening. Okay? And then it's doing some operations. Not telling you exactly what those operations are yet, but the point is that something goes in and then the output comes out. And if each time there's like a jump, that means there is a huge computation going on, some sort of a transformation going on. Okay? Transformation of the features. If you have many, many of them, that means we say the network depth is deep and that's why people start calling a deep neural network. Technically speaking, um, I'll talk about something else, uh, some, the similar one. You may, you don't need this. You can just have input and directly connect to the output. Um, that's not really, uh, we don't really call them deep neural network, a neural network, but as soon as you start having a single jump, additional jump. Okay? So maybe input, hidden, output. Then technically back then people start calling it a deep neural network. Yes. Okay. So before I get into the technical part, I want you to start understanding in a little bit different way. So it's not like a new classifier and it's not really like a new feature extractor. It's like both. Okay? So before, the traditional approach is we have SIFT or bag of words or histogram of gradients. These are kind of like hand-designed feature extractor. Okay? Um, we do not actually know how this is gonna be used. We just try to make good feature representation. You may go into KNN. It may go into SVM. It may go into some something else. Uh, they're not really connected. They're kind of like a two independent, uh, modules. Classifiers did not really try to understand what they are. They just try, they're just built to take whatever features. Okay? The features are, um, key. So getting a good feature, so features are more important than the classifiers, but they're often flawed. So this is an example. This was classified, this part of the image was classified as a car based off of the HOG features. So what happened is this is the, so this is the cropped patch of this green box. Okay? And it ran the HOG features and you can visualize the HOG features and it looks, it turns out to be like this. So if you visualize the HOG feature, the histogram of gradient features of this patch, it looks like this. And it looks like a car to me as well. Okay? So what I was telling you is these features are good, but sometimes have very, very flawed representations of what's actually happening within the image. Okay? So all these HOG features, gradients, they're good. Sure. But then the visualization are gonna start getting messed up. Okay? It's, there is a limit to what it can do. So the way to understand the neural network is the following. It's a complete end-to-end process. It's not like there's a disconnect. Okay? Typically when we train the classifiers, we need to have the outputs of the SIFT. It's not like they're just one big system, right? Neural network is a one big system. Okay? Um, people kind of often forget that's the fact. Um, so take, have the input. We have what we call the layers. So what's actually happening is it's going to transform features. This SIFT is a transformation of the image features, right? That's actually happening. There is actually a transformation of features. Transformation of features. But eventually there is also layers. So they're all, they all look pretty much identical, but depending on what the outputs are. So this is feature turning into a feature. Feature turning into a feature. Feature turning into a probability of the output classes. The outputs are the, the overall structures are the same, but depending on how you set it up, you can have, you can make it output the class probabilities, which is basically the prediction itself. Okay? So compared to this, this is just an image, uh, this is the feature, hard-coded, hard-engineered features and a completely separate classifier. And then but then this is a gradual, very smooth transformation or transition of the image into features and features and eventually in the end, this is gonna act like a analogous to a classifier and then turn into a object probabilities. Okay? I'm gonna end the today's lecture here and I'll continue on with this, um, this Thursday. Don't forget Homework 4.