Okay. So finished off K-means clustering and talked about this weird example where K-means is not able to divide some some certain types of distributions and I guess the layouts of the data. And I'm not going to talk about this but it's it's something to to look at. Like I mentioned last time basically the point is to not just use the XY coordinates but using something else. Turn this into something different. If you're able to turn this into something different somehow different feature and then do the K-means or whatever in that feature space then this may happen. But this spectral clustering or this normalized cuts is it has a specific way of turning these points into some different higher dimensional feature space and you may not be able to understand this method perfectly because it's got some linear algebra but so a little bit more. So the clustering. We can also use this for spatially smooth so spatial means in terms of space approximate I guess the proximity location basically. How can we ensure that they are spatially smooth? So in other words if we just do the segmentation within the just normal just intensity we're not going to guarantee some sort of so everything that has the same intensity are going to be clustered into the same binned into the same cluster assigned with the same cluster. So does not really care about where the pixels are right? But segmentation is in segmentation meaning the grouping things together that are also nearby and similar. The definition of nearby so similar in is in terms of the intensity similarity but what we also need is a nearby. How how do you actually have numbers that can we can use such that if the two pixels are closer to each other that actually means they need to be clustered together. So depending on what we choose as a feature space it's similar to that the two circle case that I showed you. We can group pixels in different ways. Let's not just use the intensities we can use intensity and the position. So we can use the color or the intensity in one axis but then also use the XY coordinates. Okay. So if the intensities are similar that's great it's somewhat similar but then the Xs and their corresponding Xs and Ys also need to be similar. What does it mean if the Xs and Ys are similar? That means they're closer to each other right? If the difference they're farther away in the XY space that means they're physically farther away in this space therefore difference is going to be large not going to be as similar. Okay. We can also do is not just use intensity but you can use the the color similarity so instead of using the gray scale so we can turn this as you know from the homework one you can turn these intensities RGB values into a gray scale value but let's just use the RGB values as as they are. Again the feature space it can also be based off of what 128 dimensional SIFT feature. So anything any sort of a feature space we can perform this process as long as one thing that you have to probably care about is some feature spaces don't do not have meaningful ways to measure the similarity so that's something you need to consider but in most cases there's just vectors of real numbers therefore we can use this same thing. Segmentation is clustering brightness positions we can also maybe use textures. Remember the textures how do you get the textures using filter banks so it used to be called the texton map features with I guess location with similar features are going to be clustered together. That's really it. Okay. Whatever it doesn't no one uses this anyways. So summary edges lines and segments they're all parts of grouping so whenever the exam question asks for what one of the which of the methods are based off of the grouping these are the edges and lines the Hough transform K-means clustering they're all grouping based methods. Edges or not so much about grouping but we needed edges for the lines and circles and such right? So let's move on to the transformation. Now this is so what's what we're actually have what we actually doing is starting from the first few lecture slides initially we looked at very basic features like just smoothing just as low level as you could get just based off of images intensities but then now we're moving on to something that are higher and higher level. We start using those features so we initially started with the edges not even the edges gradients we got the interest points blob detection Gaussian and then the SIFT features we did some grouping and we're going to do start doing a little more. So we're adding stuff on top of getting higher level so these sections this multi-view is very classical very useful and interesting parts of the classical computer vision so let's move on. Why multi-views? You need multiple views to get the estimation of depth. In other words how far the objects are without that it's difficult for us to able to really measure the physical real real height or real I guess sizes or features. So multi-view allow us to identify 3D things meaning how far these objects are away from you the 3D shapes and such. Okay. We have a few alignment problems so this turns into essentially turns into alignment problem. We previously discussed how to match features across images of the same or different objects so let's focus on the cases of two images of the same objects so if there are two images of the same object. So basically think of this as this house you kind of rotate the camera step away a bit and then taking that. So the house that used to look like this is now going to look like this. It's rotated and got smaller. Okay. The question is okay so these must have some XY coordinates these also must have some XY coordinates. Okay. They all have the corresponding so they're all there are correspondences right? So they're all correspondences meaning we know that which part of the image which pixel of this image should be corres semantically corresponding to that other pixel of that image right? I showed you the SIFT matching we had two images and a bunch of lines were connected across them basically the same thing. This corresponds to this and this corresponds to this. How can we do this? Maybe SIFT feature and the matching that I mentioned so the question it's asking is how do we is there some sort of a transformation function okay such that if we plug in the Xi or the coordinates of this point it exactly returns the coordinate of that other point. Okay. This is a systematic transformation. Same transformation can be applied to all the points and then they should all work. It's not that this goes here and this goes here and the yellow one goes here it needs to geometrically make sense geometrically make sense right? So we're going to be doing is exactly that. So in alignment we'll fit the parameters of some transformation when we say the fitting the parameters of the some transformation it just basically means remember that line function fitting a line means basically finding the some two parameters related to that function right? So same thing fitting the parameters of the transformation meaning we have some transformation function I don't really know what that is but it involves maybe some parameter like A and then B and maybe C. Okay. Finding these parameters fitting that parameters is basically identifying that transformation. That's why one of the things that you'll be able to do is called the image mosaicking or panorama image so this red one is the only one that's perfectly rectangular right? The other ones used to be rectangular but if we have just if we just use that rectangular image we cannot just overlay it on top of it and get this sort of alignment right? These images need to be transformed in some way such that if you transform this what used to be a perfectly rectangular image apply some transformation so it turns into this weirdly skewed image that's when you can apply add it on top of the original image the reference image and then somehow have the same point of view. Okay. So the way this works is this red one is kind of like the reference camera you take the picture this one was taken kind of like this way this other one was taken this way so it's like rotating the camera but it does not always work you cannot just add you know overlay rectangular images right? The perspectives are going to change. So what this does is kind of un-transformed images so that it actually keeps the perspective of the this what is it the reference image such that your it kind of has the effect of taking a really wide angle camera and taking a single picture. Okay. So what are the correspondences literally means they're corresponding to each other so what we be doing is compare content in local patches as you know all these patches right? And then you scan them and then identify the best one. You just literally going to go through every single one possible places and then oh say that oh this should be landing here. That's easy case but you can also do the SIFT features have some candidates and we don't need everything right? We don't need some random useless points to be matched we just want some interesting points at like corners and edges and mostly corners and blobs and so on so we can just use the SIFT features so this is what we have learned for us to give these correspondences two images run the SIFT do some matching and identify that this one belongs here and such. Okay. Oh exactly what I showed you last time. Um so next we need to talk about the transformations. Uh what are some types of transformations? Uh translate is the easy one you just literally shift kind of slide shift around the image you don't rotate the camera you just kind of shift the camera and that's the effect that it should be having. Rotation you rotate the objects aspect ratio it means in the X or Y direction it could either shrink or stretch in both directions independently and you can do the shear or squish so you keep this part but you kind of move the I guess the top horizontal line and then the image should be kind of sheared or skewed in that way and this is a complete change of perspective. It's as if you're taking the camera and then taking the same picture but from I guess the lower part of the I guess lower height. Okay. So from here to here things get more complicated but this is the most complicated one and is the easiest one. Okay. This involves some so it's also transformation function. In other words if you have some reference image of the same house if you apply this function you know exactly where that point should be landing in this other image. Okay. Same thing you have the reference image this rotation has some function if you apply that function to every single XY coordinates you know exactly where this should be such that this image is formed. So it's the spatial relationship that's what really the transformation is. And as you can tell this is pretty easy right? It's probably you know plus X plus some constant constant value A or Y plus or minus some constant value B. Okay. That's really what the translation is. Rotation maybe you can do some rotation with the rotation matrices. This is maybe multiplying X by some value or multiplying Y by some value because you're stretching it or shrinking it. This is more complicated and this is the most complicated. You can't exactly tell what kind of a function that you need such that you have to turn the reference image into this different perspective image. So these are all parametric or global warping. One can be applied to every single point within the image and it should be landing at the correct spot. So transformation T is a coordinate changing machine so you plug in the original P into the transformation function it's going to give me the translated or transformed coordinates new coordinates. Okay. What does it mean that T is global? Yeah every it can be applied to every point in here and then it should work. Okay. And what does it mean by parametric? Parametric means that the function actually can be described by a few parameters. Okay. So you know like I said I'm not exactly going maybe this is like ax plus b or something. Okay. This is a param parametric function parameterized by two parameters. This X is what I need to put in and this would be my function okay. Um the way we're going to be doing this is representing T as a matrix. Uh so what we can do is let's say ax plus by is equal to some whatever new K or something okay. But this can also be done in what way we know we've seen these cases a lot right? So a vector that has the A and B and another vector that has the X and Y and then it's going to give me the same exact solution. Same thing we're going to be not we're not going to express it in some sort of equation we're going to turn it into a matrix and the point vector product. Okay. So this is our transformation matrix. Okay. So we talk about what could be the possible transformation matrices uh let's talk about scaling um basically we need to come up with some ways to change these numbers like this. So what do you think the function could be such that if you plug in 2 for the X turns into 4 and then if you plug in 1 for the Y it turns into 2. Just means 2x plus 2x um comma um 2y so in terms of the matrix what would it look like 2 2 0 0 and then x and y. This is exactly going to give me 2 um no uh yeah it is going to give me not 2x plus y but comma right? It is going to be the vector it is going to turn into 2x and then 2y. Okay. Um so uniform scaling that means uh that the I guess the stretch or the shrink is the same equivalent for both X and Y directions. Non-uniform means that they can be independent. It can stretch in the X direction but it can shrink in the Y direction. Okay. So scaling operation multiply by some parameters these are the parameters of the transformation function and where do you think that those numbers should be going to so where do you think that A should be where do you think the Y should be I guess I kind of already gave you these solutions right? So if you want to achieve this sort of a scaling transformation okay then what you can do is design this transformation matrix such that this is A which we want to transform by and this is B and then the off diagonals are zeros. Okay. So this is going to be our scaling matrix S. So depending on how you design this we're going to be achieving different things. So 2D linear transformation linear transformation can be represented as a 2 by 2 matrix so linear representations are various combinations of so you can also do scale so it's a higher abstract notion. So not all um scaling so linear transformations can do scaling do rotation shear and mirroring. Okay. Depending on how you design this um scaling and rotation could happen maybe these two could happen it really depends. So um what transformations can be uh achieve with this 2 by 2 matrix so 2D scaling is okay so if you want to change this X coordinates and Y coordinates in through this scaling operation sure just have these numbers set up. If you want to rotate it around the X ax uh around the Z uh the origin 0 comma 0 so if you want to rotate put this point into maybe along this circle literally just a rotation about the axis then you can use this rotation matrix. Um this is another way to basically applying a rotation function so given the data it's going to exactly rotate my X and Y coordinates based off of these functions. So my new X location is going to depend on this function which is just the inner product of these two bottom one is the inner product of these two. Okay. Shearing is uh different com so shearing if you if you think about this um shearing means that you have a original rect let's say a a square um the farther you go up the Y coordinate the farther it gets away from the this axis right? So there is a relationship between the Y and the location of X. So location of X depends on how how far you go so how large the Y value is. That's represented this way. So as the uh so this SH is a some you know shear parameter like these and then XHY is the scaling um uh of the Y so if Y increases X new X is going to get farther and farther away having this sort of a shearing effect. Same thing for the Y if X goes farther and farther away Y can either go this way like having this sort of a shearing effect or can also have um this sort of a shearing effect. This is um the the transformation matrix why do you have one because we have the X how do you keep the X okay in this case how do you keep this X you need to have one here so 1 times X plus SHX times Y is our new X prime. Rotation example uh if you rotate this by 90 degrees uh you get exactly get the new coordinates as needed so 2 comma 4 turns into 4 comma 2. 5 comma negative 2 turns into 2 comma 5. Okay. Um not sure what it mean uh so how do you write it it's just a way to derive this I you don't need to know about this but just need to realize that you can rotate this about the X uh the 0 comma 0 origin. So what what's the last one that we have uh mirroring about the X axis uh Y axis so if you have an image if you have an X here maybe there's a rectangle here just flip it about the X Y axis and this is what you have so flipping about the Y axis across the Y axis okay so point here goes here point goes here and so on. Very simple right just put the negative one here. Mirroring over the origin so if you have a triangle here it should be placed here what do we do put the negative sign in both of them put negative one across the uh the the diagonal. Now um translation so I did say that the translation is very easy because I just need to add some constant value to the X and the Y coordinates independently. Can you actually though have this achieve this using a 2 by 2 matrix? How can you design a 2 by 2 matrix what what numbers should A B C and D should be such that if you multiply by this matrix you get X plus TX and then Y plus TY. Can you get this? What can what values can you have here? Basically not possible okay. Um that's why you need an extra space you need a new coordinate system just slightly transformed coordinate system called the homogeneous coordinates so to convert the homogeneous coordinates convert to homogeneous coordinates well all I need to do is turn the x comma y to basically a vector so what we used to have just x and y now we have an extra dimension xy and 1. Okay. It's a fixed one just it's so this is the homogeneous image coordinates. Um you can go from this homogeneous coordinates to the image space which only has two variables how do you get that um divide by W just dividing this by W means what happens if you divide everything on here by W you get X over W Y over W and then 1. So third dimension always has to be 1 for this to be a homogeneous coordinates how do you enforce that divide by the third value that's why this is the transformation from these homogeneous coordinates to the um the image coordinates. Okay. Um simple example this says um I guess this is another um homogeneous coordinate example not not important just translation. Now we can do X plus TX. Okay. What do you think the value should be here such that when you multiply by XY and 1 we get this right vector. Probably 1 here because this is the only thing that gets that gets multiplied by X for me to get this X right? And then Y should be here um and then this one should be 0 because X does not appear here this should be 0 because the Y does not appear here. Okay. Now this needs to be 1. Okay. Somehow this needs to be 1 if I multiply whatever is at the bottom most row multiply by XY1 this needs to be 1. How do you ensure that easy just put two zeros here and then put the last one to be 1 this is the easiest way of getting this 1 guaranteed right? Now what's left these two values will be multiplied by 1 and gets added to the X so this can be the TX and then this can be TY like this. So ironically transformation seem like the easiest one but that actually required an extra dimension so that we cannot achieve this using a 2 by 2 matrix we needed a 3 by 3 matrix. Okay. So this is the 2D affine transformation matrix we have six parametra parameters is parameterized by six values okay ABC DE and F. Bottom one is fixed you don't need this okay um you need this but they can they don't need to be changed at all. So affine transformations are combinations of linear transformations how do you get how do you achieve the linear transformations these these were linear transformations that we got but we can also uh achieve translation through this so um that line equation so mx plus b this is an example of a an affine transformation um specifically a 2D affine a 1D affine transformation um because it's multiplied and then added so whenever there is a multiplication so these are all mult multiplicative transformations and a transformation these are all additive so whenever you see multiply by something divide by something plus or minus something then it's an affine transformation okay. Um specific characteristic it does not actually break the line so lines are going to be lines after transformation no matter what you do parallel lines are going to remain parallel so they may rotate but if they're parallel to each other in the original space rotat uh applying the 2D affine transformation they're going to remain parallel to each other they may shift they may shear but two lines that are parallel are going to be parallel what if it's not parallel it's going to look something like this kind of resembles start starting to resemble the perspective transformation right? So fitting an affine transformation um now we're going to get into uh linear algebra ways of solving this so assuming that you know the correspondences assuming that we have these five points so I have X X Y coordinates of this reference image and transformed image I have five of them okay so if essentially I have X1 Y1 and then the corresponding X prime 1 and then Y prime 1 how many do I have I have all the way down to 5 okay. So each point is going to go through the same transformation meaning the same identical transformation matrix so these are the parameters of the affine transformation okay plus this they're going to be fixed we we're going to be fitting an affine transformation meaning for all the points that we have we're not fitting a line using the points now we're fitting these points through this different function fitting a line that we did was fitting a line of finding the M and B given all these points okay but the function that we want to fit is not this anymore it is this. Okay. So we need to find a m1 m2 m3 m4 and t1 t2 that satisfies all five correspondence pairs okay let's rewrite this so we're going to be doing something similar to what we did for linear trans uh the linear um line fitting uh let's just uh how do we say um just stack all the parameters m1 m2 m3 m4 t1 t2 like this okay remember this is kind of like what we did before right we had the m and b matrix of the linear um the line fitting same thing just um just stack all the parameters and then it's our now what we need to do is somehow design this okay just like that A matrix that we had for line fitting such that when you multiply this row by these parameters you get Xi prime um what what would that be so Xi prime is m1 times x1 plus m2 times y1 or uh plus t1 how do we design this row such that if you multiply this by that row we have this pretty easy right? m1 times Xi m2 times Yi and then m3 times zeros you know these this one does not involve any of the um m3s and m4s and then t1 needs to appear so t1 is multiplied by 1 and the t2 is not part of this so is set to 0. This needs to be done for X and Y so Y is slightly different it's using m3 and m4 and then t2 so for each correspondence okay so each correspondence it's going to give me two rows okay right so x1 and y1 is going to give me x1 y1 0 0 1 0 and then 0 0 x1 y1 0 1 right so if you have n points you have 2n rows of this so how many matches do we need to solve for the transformation parameters what is the minimum number okay what is the minimum number of correspondence pairs matches so this is a single match okay this is a single match in other words how many of these two column things that we need such that we can actually guarantee some solution how many do we need it's just a simple linear algebra question right so the number of unknowns so number of equations that you need is equivalent to the number of unknowns okay but assuming assuming that what we need to uh count for some uh degenerate cases so if we have let's say so based off of this um we can how many points how many uh correspondences do we need we need three correspondences because that gives us six rows and six rows is the minimum number of rows that you need to solve for these unknown variables right that's the basics but that's possible that is the case when these three points are so that means we're using these are enough okay so these three are enough maybe these three are enough okay maybe um I don't know these three are enough but what's not enough is the following combination these three okay so what happens is one of them so this point what happens they're not independent from each other meaning they have a linear relationship this is not a new information we need three correspondences for three different types of information okay in various uh axis but this green one is probably assuming that this is collinear they're all collinear to each other then this green one can is a linear combination of this purple point okay this is not a new point it's a basically a useless point okay so if we have three points that are co uh collinear like this we do have six equations but practically we only have four or equations okay so this that's why um it's import there is a minimum number that you need okay correspondences but there is also a condition which basically means that they need not be collinear like this okay um there's more about the rank of the matrix and all that stuff um but the point is they need to be linearly independent from each other this is linearly dependent case this can be computed by some combination of these two vectors just extend it some way in this direction this is literally in the middle of these two points so these are not linearly independent from each other these are linearly dependent from each other okay so we need three linearly independent correspondences okay so once we have solved for the parameters how do we compute this new things so instead of these correspondences if there is a new point x x new and y new how do we compute this um just bring it over here what we did was finding m1 2 3 4 and t1 t2 just perform this equation and you should be getting the one uh new x new and then y new prime so saw this uh key point matching problem that from before right so some uh what we can do is uh it's a quick detour so we're we're trying to match descriptor so oh this corresponds to this uh this corresponds to p1 and so on we can also um look for uh solving translation with outliers so there are some outliers uh so what we can do is uh let's talk about this very irrelevant to what we're going to talk about let's just move on um most complicated one 2D projective transformations how do we know it's complicated um it's using three additional parameters that means the transformation that we want to achieve requires all nine parameters not always but um it is possible to achieve some transformation by using all these nine parameters this is a combination of affine transformation which only relies on this and the projective warps so this is the transformation so in this case parallel lines are not necessarily parallel anymore right um you can imagine you're taking kind of half the surface but you kind of rotate in the 3D space it's not just a rotation in 2D space or translation in 2D space it's as if you kind of zoom in and then you rotate the paper such that or this this plane um in some three dimensional space not just in the X and Y direction but some Z direction as well that gives us the change of the perspective okay um projective transformation is uh somewhat it's uh not easy to understand initially um conceptually it's easy it's like just rotating this plane so projective transformation is a mapping between any two projective planes with the same center of projection suppose this is your eye or the camera center okay so you're just camera just looking at whatever in this direction or your eye you're looking at something in this direction something whatever object that is here these are this is the center of projection so same person okay looking at two different planes okay two different planes one could be looking at this plane the other could be uh same person could be looking at this other plane so it's I guess it's kind of hard to um describe in other words okay before we were talking about points how do we actually estimate XY and Y prime X prime Y prime from this original X and Y okay same thing that's happening here but the transformation is a little bit more complicated from the 2D perspective okay you're basically getting the let's say going from XY and Y uh X and Y to X prime and then Y prime okay in the 2D space but actually what's actually happening in the uh for us to get this transformation going from here to here we cannot just perform this in the 2D space we need an extra dimension extra third uh third dimension which is this where is this from this is the homogeneous coordinate right so mapping between any two projective planes um talk about what the projective plane uh plane is simply put okay simply put if there is an ob so why do you see this purple dot here in this image why do you see a purple dot in here in this location because that purple dot is probably somewhere along this line you're looking at the purple dot okay I'm looking at the purple dot it appears at this point it appears at this point because whatever the actual purple dot in this this 3D world is being projected to your eyes so if you have another plane it's going to appear here this purple dot is going to appear at different locations depending on how you look at it you're looking at this now so in this PP1 purple dot is the center so it appears at the center of the image this purple dot this blue uh green dot appears to the left of the image now you're looking at this uh now you're actually staring at the blue dot uh green dot the green dot let's say appears here but the purple dot which used to be here when you looked at that purple dot this way is now located somewhere else so basically means that you rotate your eye roll around your eye have different trans uh projections all the objects are located at the same place it's just that depending on how you what direction you look at them depending on how you project it they're going to appear at different places I want to identify ways to go from P to P prime this is called the um homography it's a matrix where it has nine values I need to find all of them such that I go from XY1 to um WX prime WY prime and W okay it it'll become a little more uh more clear once you start looking at the images but before we do that um super quick attendance time um attendance 6635 okay gonna have it up here in case you missed it 6635 so image mosaics uh it's the same thing this red dot I'm this is my camera center I'm taking the picture this way and taking the picture to the right okay so this green image is the projection of the world uh sorry uh five projection of the world when you look at that world through the uh through a in this direction using this as the projection so whatever is here is going to appear at this location of the image whatever is here is going to appear at this location image why because that's where the camera is extending out okay whatever that is here is going to appear at this point now um this purple this green dot suppose that's here um that's the location of this this is the 50 comma 70 of the this image okay now the same object if we rotate the camera to the right okay just enough that it still captured in that newly rotated direction now it appears here now it appears at 50 comma 20 okay it up this is the 50 comma 20 of this image okay so this has its own like XY coordinates this has its own XY coordinates okay so in this XY coordinates this red dot appeared at 50 and 70 here in this purple XY coordinates that red dot appeared here 50 and 20 here okay right so my question is if there is a new point in the world that's been projected only so if you know the location of this red new red dot the red dot 2 it appears as um this 90 comma 40 in the purple plane now how can we get the location of this without actually looking at the XY coordinate of this how can you actually how do we do the homography transformation such that given the this P information 90 40 comma 1 we get the image coordinate here okay so this is the projective this is the this is what I mean by projection so this is a way to understand what the camera really is how the perspective changes you need to start realizing that we're actually projecting 3D stuff in the world onto this 2D plane which is basically the camera sensor and we're just processing it so even though something that looks appears in a specific structure geometry is going to appear differently in different locations if you rotate the camera okay and that same thing is going to be projected onto its own new projection space okay and we need to be able to find basically a transformation um where this basically this point right so this purple one should appear here that's where the projection is happening what is this coordinate that is basically the question that we want to ask okay so the image mosaic has goals these are different cam uh ang different uh images uh just by taking the rotation same camera center so you're not taking the camera here and then move it here and then move it here so there there's a translation going on what should be happening theoretically is camera only rotated with the same um I guess the lens or whatever the um the point of view staying the same that's what we have but we cannot just put this image on top of this and expect this to be smoothly connected right we need to take this as a reference for example I want to turn this into some slightly different image such that if I place it on top of it it aligns nicely okay basically means this image was taken by let's say rotating the camera this way but I want to transform the image information in this form uh in this uh projection plane I want to translate it so that it actually is on the same plane as the reference image suppose this middle one is the reference image I want to rotate this I want to somehow transform this such that it appears on this reference image projection plane okay that means there it's basically the same as looking at the same object through the same direction okay even though we have not done that we can actually ro kind of transform the image plane information such that it's on the original image plane because that is essentially just looking at the same object through the original reference image plane direction okay that's when you're able to concatenate this and then overlap them and then be able to have this image mosaic so um this is just the same thing that I mentioned you look at things so image mosaic plane this is our reference I need to put all the image information okay onto this plane they need to be here why this is our image it has X and Y and nothing else that's what the 2D images are right so what happens is um you initially take the projection maybe there's an object here it whatever is object here appears here so let's go back object here appears here okay um maybe let's take this uh so some object appears here and here so in two different planes I want to put all this projected information onto this reference image mosaic plane okay same thing for all other images I want to basically transform all these planes into here bas but this is interesting because um it's not really 1D imagine that this is 3D okay I'm just looking at only let's say Y direction so this is Z let's say so this is a Z direction this is Y and then um some axis that you're not able to see is X okay essentially what you're doing is this literally is a some some sort of a 3D point this actually has in the homogeneous coordinates it actually has three dimensions right X Y W X W Y and W right so just three dimension this you need to start thinking of this as a trans transforming the location of 3D ho homogeneous points into this another 3D homogeneous coordinates okay this is a 3D translation actually 3D transformation we are in now the 3D point uh space so this is something in 3D some uh three dimensional points turning that into some other three dimensional points but what's interesting is that okay this three dimensional points let's say is X and Y um and let's say just um I don't know uh let's say it's W okay Y W W this I want to take so this mosaic plane I want to decide that this is going to be a new point where the last coordinate is always one this is when let's say the Z axis is basically one just as um abstractly speaking so once you're able to transform this it may actually be it may actually be here it may actually be here what we'll do is divide by the W such that the last one is one and once we do that it's going to land exactly onto this image plane where the third dimension is one talk about this um one other time uh except it's 49 um just gonna just briefly go through this example and then finish off um I let's suppose that you have identified the correspondences P1 here P2 here I want to transform from P1 to P2 P1 is X P1 Y P1 and 1 so that's the location of this in the image one coordinates P2 is X P2 Y P2 and 1 in this coordinates so why is this one it means this has its own axis this is when it is X1 X Y and 1 this purple one has its own axis so within this axis purple axis this is where the one is but now I want what I want to do is find the location of P with respect to the axis of the purple one because that's when I can actually place this um into onto this purple uh purple space okay so what we want to do is move all these points in P all every single location all the Xs into P and that's going to turn into an image that looks like uh that's in this uh purple space okay um okay so what we want to do is going from P1 to P1 prime same point appearing at some different place W X prime W Y prime and W okay once we all divide it by W is going to give me X X prime P1 Y prime P1 and then 1 this is going to be the coordinate of this okay um I'll go through this one at a time it's very systematic um I just want you to kind of understand the image in a slightly different perspective it's not just some splatting of the information onto some random 2D rectangle it's a projection of the stuff on in into the world that's why if we start talking about multi-view stuff we can start understanding where the actual objects are and how they should appear if you're looking at that object from a different perspective that's essentially what we're doing right looking at the same object from a different perspective can only be done once you know the kind of the depth and the the 3D um structure of that object okay so I'm gonna stop here and I'll continue on with this this Thursday.