Do you know homework 4 is out? I think it's due on this next Tuesday, the 18th. So we started with the CNNs, uh, just started, didn't really talk too much about it. They talk about the neural networks first. So traditional recognition approach, this is what the, um, the original vision has been about. People would be handcrafting the features. Okay. Um, it's not that when we were designing, when we were talking about SIFT and the other ones, we didn't, we weren't really considering what would be the corresponding classifier. Right? So we didn't really know anything about the SVMs or KNNs. We just tried to come up with some useful, um, features which could be used for classification for these models or, or matching or bag of words or all the other things. Okay. Um, not really an ideal, ideal setting because ultimately what we want is to be able to classify the object as best as possible. And there are some issues. So what the neural networks allow is that they, it's kind of, um, a huge pipeline, what we call an end-to-end pipeline basically going, uh, there's input, all goes all the way to the output. It's not that they're going to be trained or, um, operated on separately. It's a whole one big process. So learn the feature hierarchy the way, uh, all the way from pixels to classifier. So what this says is each layer extracts features from the output of previous layers and train all layers jointly. So each one is like a module. Something's going, some, uh, some training is going to be happening.

Um, so when the image comes in, uh, I'm talking about literally just any image. It's not the, uh, SIFT features or anything. Um, specifically stating that these are pixels. So image go in and it's going to be transformed. So it's some, so X goes in, it's going to be transformed into, I don't know, some feature F and it's going to be transformed into some, some feature F2 and it's going to be, uh, eventually be classified as either one, um, one of the multiple classes or. Okay. Um, so there's no really a, a, a boundary. Um, there's no, we can't really divide and, um, say that the first N layers are features and the last one is a classifier. Anything really can be classifier depending on what you want, what you have, um, how you design the output to be. So this is just mostly for the illustration purpose. So the, the top model, the top framework, you, we used to call them the shallow models. Okay. Um, in terms of the depth of the pipeline. Bottom one, we start calling deep models. Okay. Um, the deep learning architecture basically. Um, but we can, we just casually say shallow models versus the deep models. The shallow models, not necessarily it's a matter of one thing or two things. It just talking about not using neural networks and having a series of transformations. The bottom one is the deep model. Um, if it's just a single classifier, then which we can design, we don't call them deep models, just call them a shallow model. But as long, as soon as you have multiple layers, multiple, a series of operation going on, then we're going to start calling it a deep model.

In order for us to understand the, uh, what's actually happening inside each layer, we first talk about the most basic, um, the most primitive form of the neural network, which is called the perceptron. It came out many, many years ago. It's not a recent, um, recent product. It's a very old product. So we have inputs. We have X1 through XD. Okay. Um, it can be a vector. We can even vector, uh, so let's assume that we have a vector of features. So it's a D-dimensional feature and, uh, suppose we have an extra bias term. It's like a homogeneous coordinate bias term kind of. Okay. So the actual feature is about the top D dimension and the bottom one is just a, um, a constant that we just add. The goal is to learn a function F such that the Y is F of X. So the, um, we predict the Y as best as possible. The input is a vector of X, which has D-dimensional and output is going to be Y. We start seeing lines. We have circles and lines. We're going to call each of these circles nodes and we're going to call them edges. Okay. Each edge is going to have, um, a weight associated with it because that's what we're going to be learning and that's what determines the output. So bottom one, um, if you see the, the, the formula here, it goes all the way from I equals one to D. So we're going to be doing this for each of the Ds. Essentially what we do is the Xi times the Wi, the superscript one just indicates that this is the first layer. Okay. Layer one. All we're going to do is multiply each feature by the corresponding weight W. So X1 times W1, X2 times W2, X3 times W3. Okay. That's where the summation comes and then the last one is just a single X0, the bias term plus the, um, the W0. And that is going to be the output of X.

This we've seen this a lot, right? We've seen this from the, the linear classifier. We've seen, essentially is the linear classifier, right? We, we saw this from the, the SVM. We saw this from the, the simple linear classifier example. We even saw this when we were doing the linear line fitting, right? So essentially what we're seeing is, is just a visual, just a different way of visualizing this linear, um, the affine transformation process. Okay. But we don't typically end here. We're going to turn into a, um, something different. We're going to have a non-linear activation function. So this is a linear process, right? It's a linear line. The transformations are all just multiplications and additions. This is linear. Okay. But it has limitations. Um, we're talking about modeling, we're talking about, um, this function somehow being able to make good predictions about the Y. So we have all the Xs at the bottom and the Y at the top. It's not just a linear relationship. We want something more complicated. Okay. This can only capture linear relationships. So we're going to try to make it a little bit more non-linear, a little bit more complex. That part comes from the non-linear activation function. So this A, okay, to Y, we have a simple function. It's just, it's just a one-to-one function. So a value goes in, a value comes out. Scalar input, scalar output. It just basically changes the shape. Um, and this H is the activation function that we can choose. There, you have, you're going to have several options. The one that we're going to be using, um, the one we introduce first is called the sigmoid function. So this is, is the, um, is the sigma of X is equal to one over one plus E to the negative X power. What happens is this is the X and this is the, the X axis, the Y axis is the sigma of X. Okay. Uh, it's kind of hard to see, but this is exactly one and the bottom is zero obviously. So what this function does is originally X can be anything, um, the Y can be anything. Okay. I mean the, the, the A, the A. But then once that value goes through this non-linear activation, sigmoid specifically, it's going to be transformed into, it's going to turn, it's going to turn into one of these numbers. So it is guaranteed that this number is not going to be exactly zero unless X is, um, very, very large, um, negative infinity. Or unless the X, it's not going to be one unless the X is a positive infinity value. What this does is it's also called a shrink function. So whatever the value X is, it is always going to be in between zero and one. Okay. Not even inclusive, exclusive. Okay.

Um, has several reasons for this. Um, but for one very obvious reason is that if we just stop here, what is this? It's not a classification. It's more of regression. We're trying to, uh, predict the A as it is. But Y, if we want to do a classification, the Y is going to be either zero or one. Okay. We want this entire process to produce outputs that is either close to zero indicating it's a zero class, zero or very close to one indicating it's a very close to class one. Okay. This, this itself, we cannot, we cannot enforce that. But as soon as it goes through this sigmoid function, it's guaranteed. So what happens is this is exactly happening at X equals zero. So if the value is very, very, very large negative number, the sigma of X is going to be close to zero. Okay. Which is good. We want, uh, basically if the X or this A, okay, whatever this goes in here, if this value is very, very, very, uh, large negative number, that means we're super confident that it's probably a very, very, very, um, true negative class, I guess. And if it's, it's a very, very large positive number, then it's going to be very close to one. Very, very close to one. Not exactly one. Okay. So this is essentially mapping some negative infinity to potentially positive infinity values to zero and one. Okay. Very useful. So essentially we, we can make a decision. If it's let's say smaller than 0.5, that means it's approximately here. It's very, very uncertain about its position. It's not either this or this. Then we're going to have an output that is very close to 0.5. If it's smaller than 0.5, then it's on the left side, negative side, therefore maybe class zero. If it's greater than positive five, then it's class one. We're kind of forcing this output to be in between the value of our interest. Okay. This process of linear, um, transformation and non-linear transformation is called the perceptron. Perceptron is a single layer. This, this, these edges, this is a single layer. So there's a one transformation, right? It only happens once. This is basically a binary classifier version of an SVM. It's a linear classifier, but we kind of force it to be of between zero and one. Okay.

We're going to try to generalize it a little more. We're going to try to expand it to additional layers. But before we do that, uh, we're going to try to, um, so here we just have a single output. What if we have multiple outputs like this? Okay. So these weights have sub-indices, two sub-indices, J and I. What that means is we're basically going from some, um, input I to the output J. So these are all one ones because we're going from X1 to A1, X2 to A1. So this, this would be the I, right? And this, this would be the J. So these are all, uh, XD to A1. So XD to A1. That's why they're flipped. It's just a convention, not too important. So the activation at the bottom that we have, um, the activation output, so before we get have the, um, non-linear activation, we call them activation. So A is, A stands for activation. So we have W1I times XI. So these two have to match. Okay. That means we can actually generalize this to have multiple outputs. Okay. So instead of having the J to always be one, we can this have this to be one of the Ms. So layer one, the input is going to be, um, X to, we're going to map the X to the hidden input Z. Okay. M-dimensional Z. It's a hidden representation. We just transform the image or vector, input vector into some M-dimensional feature. How do we do this? For each of the M dimension, we're going to perform the activation computation. So we're going to do this for each of the J, um, M. So the J is going to be from one through M. Okay. We're going to do that for each one of them. Okay. That means there are edges. How many edges are there? Each, um, J has D plus one edges. Right. And how many of the, uh, how many Ms there, how many Js are there? M. So there, there are big M times D plus one edges that you should be expecting. There are no exceptions. Everything's connected. All combinations are going to be here. It's just that I'm not showing them for, for visualization purpose. Um, if you go all the way back, this is when you just show every possible edges without exception. Okay. This, this one comes from every single one of the inputs. This one comes from every single one of them. I'm just not showing it explicitly. And each one also goes through a non-linear activation. So what you have to notice is that, um, typically and in almost all cases, uh, they're going to be using the same type of function. If it's, if H is a sigmoid, everything here at least are going to be using the sigmoid. Okay. Um, so everything put into one, this is AJ. We're going to have the H non-linear activation. So each of the Zs, the ZJ is the linear transformation and the non-linear transformation. Okay. Um, I said D times M, but typically, uh, just think of this as the just the, you know, big O notation or something. Um, the bias terms are usually neg, neglected. Okay.

So let's write this, write the set of As as a vector. So let's have this bold-faced A as a vector, which is a row vector of, um, these As from A1 to AM. And we can actually represent this part as a linear function. So W is going to be the matrix of all the weights and the W is the each of the, so X is the column vector. So we have a W, big W. We have one column vector X. This is given. This is a D-dimensional thing. And the output is going to be a one-dimensional A where it has all the As, A1 through AM. What this matrix W has is all possible weights that, that, that this layer has. So if I want to compute A1, what happens? I'm multiplying the first row W with the X. That means all the lines connecting from X to A1, all the weights are going to be saved here. So W, J, I, literally, so this is the index row J, column I. It's kind of weird, has the matrix, has all the corresponding weights. And then even though the layer is super, super deep and complicated, it can really be expressed as a single, single W matrix. That means no matter how deep the model is, how many layers you have, it's just really a super simple transformation that can be described with a single matrix. We are doing, we are stacking these layers so that we can actually turn this X into things that, that feature representation that are more and more and more complicated so that in the end we get good outputs. But if no matter what we do, it just turns down to be, turns out to be a single linear transformation, then it basically has no meaning. It's not, um, really a complicated function. It's just the same as a simple perceptron. Okay. So, um, this is not really what's written, uh, how it's drawn typically. We just remove the activation, uh, activation outputs because there's almost always a, a hidden, uh, non-linear activation of some sort. We just typically, um, uh, let, uh, write the type of activation function here. So we don't actually explicitly say this. We just assume that it has been, has gone through a non-linear activation anyways. Okay. So this is typically what it is shown here. Um, sometimes you express each layer as a function. Sometimes you're actually expressing each layer as a function. So Z is a vector which takes the X, but has a set of, so you see the semicolon, that means that these are like the conditions or like, um, the parameters. So this is the input. The remainders, remaining W, M, D, so I said M, D, M outputs and then D inputs of the first layer. And then B biases for the first layer as well. So these are the parameters that this function is using to take the input X and then out, produce output Z. Okay. Sometimes you're going to be just seeing, um, so we don't want to write this down, uh, write this down every single time. So what people say is, oh, this entire model is parameterized by theta, which just kind of abstractly says this has all the Ws and Bs necessary. Okay. So some, sometimes people write this as F of X semicolon theta to indicate that this theta is what you are trying to be learning. These are the parameters. These are like the line parameters of the SVM and such. But people don't even write this. Uh, people just typically just don't even write this, but sometimes you want to specify the data. So what people do is just write as a sub, subscript like this. This F, whatever function is, which is neural network, is parameterized by this theta and takes the input X and produces the Y, um, the output Y. Okay. These are just different ways of writing this. So you got to be pretty flexible about the notations. You're going to be seeing various forms of notations. Okay.

So non-linear activation is basically what makes this neural network super special. So non-linear activation function for output. If it's binary, then you're going to be using the sigmoid almost always. Okay. Um, it's in that case, so if it's a multi-class neural network, we have multiple outputs. So each YK is the confidence of the class, like the likelihood, uh, how, how, um, how confident you are, how confident the model is. Um, so we want the output such that the YI, YK of the corresponding, small K, um, of the corresponding, the correct class is high while the others are low. We want if the K is the class of your interest, that should be one, everything else should be zero. Okay. We're going to be expressing that, uh, we're going to be turning that, uh, so remember the sigmoid, we turned these values into what? The each X into either something close to zero or something close to one, right? We're going to be doing something similar. So the As are going to be everywhere. It's going to be from negative, negative infinity to positive infinity real values. But we want them such that these, uh, it kind of follows this confidence distribution. Okay. So this is called the softmax. Um, extremely important, extremely important concept that you probably need to, really, really need to know. We're going to be taking the exponent. So it's E to the AK over the sum of all the possible As. Sum of all the E to the AJs. Okay. This is going to be giving you, so what, what is actually happening is that this we can kind of precompute. We're, we're going to be normalizing that, uh, this value by the sum of the other values. So the sum of all the YKs, okay, after we compute this, we're going to be doing this for each of the Ys. The sum of them should be equal to one. So in that sense, it's literally the probability distribution. So softmax turns this into a probability distribution which sums to one. It has to sum to one, right? Because we already took the sum and divided by the sum. And then the, what's on the top is just the, the corresponding the exponent of the activation output. Okay. We're going to be seeing examples and how the numbers come up.

Now there are issues. Um, so, uh, multi-class. Typically when we have the data set, when it's a multi-class, say it's a class one, two, three and four. Okay. Or, or dog or, um, let's not just have one, two, three. Let's have, uh, have a, a dog, uh, a cat and a person. Okay. Um, typically we just assign values. Okay. If Y is, uh, let's just say this is, dog is basically Y, um, for the Y, Y zero. Cat is basically for let's say Y one. Uh, person is going to be for Y two or something. Whatever. Okay. Uh, obviously it starts from one. Let's say one, two, three. If it's a multi-class, can we actually do Y equals some, some number? In other words, can we just say the dog is when the Y, Y is equal to one? Can we just say the cat is when the Y is equal to two? Can we just say Y, uh, person is for the Y equals three? Okay. Can we predict each number to predict the corresponding classes? Basically that's kind of the question. Okay. Can we say that, oh, if the Y is, can we actually force the model if it sees a, let's say a dog image, have it predict the Y equals one. If it's a cat image, can we force this to predict Y equals two? If it's a person image, can we force this to equal to Y equals three? That's the question. Makes no sense. Right? Intuitively this makes no sense for several reasons. One, um, these are continuous values. Okay. So, so what's actually happens is, uh, what this implies is that there is a continuity going on. It's ordinal. They're just sorting. You can sort this. Okay. Uh, what this implies is that for some reason, dog, dog and cat are more similar to each other and, uh, and the cat and a person are more similar to each other, but chance of confusing dog and a person is less likely to happen. Okay. We cannot, we cannot encode these multi-class in this simple numerical way. So what we do is we do the one-hot vector. It makes more sense. One-hot vector is a K-dimensional vector where K is the number of classes. So if we have three classes, dog, cat, person, we have a vector of size three. Okay. What this matrix W has is all possible weights that, that, that this layer has. So if I want to compute A1, what happens? I'm multiplying the first row W with the X. That means all the lines connecting from X to A1, all the weights are going to be saved here. So W, J, I, literally, so this is the index row J, column I. It's kind of weird, has the matrix, has all the corresponding weights. And then even though the layer is super, super deep and complicated, it can really be expressed as a single, single W matrix. That means no matter how deep the model is, how many layers you have, it's just really a super simple transformation that can be described with a single matrix. We are doing, we are stacking these layers so that we can actually turn this X into things that, that feature representation that are more and more and more complicated so that in the end we get good outputs. But if no matter what we do, it just turns down to be, turns out to be a single linear transformation, then it basically has no meaning. It's not, um, really a complicated function. It's just the same as a simple perceptron. Okay. So, um, this is not really what's written, uh, how it's drawn typically. We just remove the activation, uh, activation outputs because there's almost always a, a hidden, uh, non-linear activation of some sort. We just typically, um, uh, let, uh, write the type of activation function here. So we don't actually explicitly say this. We just assume that it has been, has gone through a non-linear activation anyways. Okay. So this is typically what it is shown here. Um, sometimes you express each layer as a function. Sometimes you're actually expressing each layer as a function. So Z is a vector which takes the X, but has a set of, so you see the semicolon, that means that these are like the conditions or like, um, the parameters. So this is the input. The remainders, remaining W, M, D, so I said M, D, M outputs and then D inputs of the first layer. And then B biases for the first layer as well. So these are the parameters that this function is using to take the input X and then out, produce output Z. Okay. Sometimes you're going to be just seeing, um, so we don't want to write this down, uh, write this down every single time. So what people say is, oh, this entire model is parameterized by theta, which just kind of abstractly says this has all the Ws and Bs necessary. Okay. So some, sometimes people write this as F of X semicolon theta to indicate that this theta is what you are trying to be learning. These are the parameters. These are like the line parameters of the SVM and such. But people don't even write this. Uh, people just typically just don't even write this, but sometimes you want to specify the data. So what people do is just write as a sub, subscript like this. This F, whatever function is, which is neural network, is parameterized by this theta and takes the input X and produces the Y, um, the output Y. Okay. These are just different ways of writing this. So you got to be pretty flexible about the notations. You're going to be seeing various forms of notations. Okay.

So non-linear activation is basically what makes this neural network super special. So non-linear activation function for output. If it's binary, then you're going to be using the sigmoid almost always. Okay. Um, it's in that case, so if it's a multi-class neural network, we have multiple outputs. So each YK is the confidence of the class, like the likelihood, uh, how, how, um, how confident you are, how confident the model is. Um, so we want the output such that the YI, YK of the corresponding, small K, um, of the corresponding, the correct class is high while the others are low. We want if the K is the class of your interest, that should be one, everything else should be zero. Okay. We're going to be expressing that, uh, we're going to be turning that, uh, so remember the sigmoid, we turned these values into what? The each X into either something close to zero or something close to one, right? We're going to be doing something similar. So the As are going to be everywhere. It's going to be from negative, negative infinity to positive infinity real values. But we want them such that these, uh, it kind of follows this confidence distribution. Okay. So this is called the softmax. Um, extremely important, extremely important concept that you probably need to, really, really need to know. We're going to be taking the exponent. So it's E to the AK over the sum of all the possible As. Sum of all the E to the AJs. Okay. This is going to be giving you, so what, what is actually happening is that this we can kind of precompute. We're, we're going to be normalizing that, uh, this value by the sum of the other values. So the sum of all the YKs, okay, after we compute this, we're going to be doing this for each of the Ys. The sum of them should be equal to one. So in that sense, it's literally the probability distribution. So softmax turns this into a probability distribution which sums to one. It has to sum to one, right? Because we already took the sum and divided by the sum. And then the, what's on the top is just the, the corresponding the exponent of the activation output. Okay. We're going to be seeing examples and how the numbers come up.

Now there are issues. Um, so, uh, multi-class. Typically when we have the data set, when it's a multi-class, say it's a class one, two, three and four. Okay. Or, or dog or, um, let's not just have one, two, three. Let's have, uh, have a, a dog, uh, a cat and a person. Okay. Um, typically we just assign values. Okay. If Y is, uh, let's just say this is, dog is basically Y, um, for the Y, Y zero. Cat is basically for let's say Y one. Uh, person is going to be for Y two or something. Whatever. Okay. Uh, obviously it starts from one. Let's say one, two, three. If it's a multi-class, can we actually do Y equals some, some number? In other words, can we just say the dog is when the Y, Y is equal to one? Can we just say the cat is when the Y is equal to two? Can we just say Y, uh, person is for the Y equals three? Okay. Can we predict each number to predict the corresponding classes? Basically that's kind of the question. Okay. Can we say that, oh, if the Y is, can we actually force the model if it sees a, let's say a dog image, have it predict the Y equals one. If it's a cat image, can we force this to predict Y equals two? If it's a person image, can we force this to equal to Y equals three? That's the question. Makes no sense. Right? Intuitively this makes no sense for several reasons. One, um, these are continuous values. Okay. So, so what's actually happens is, uh, what this implies is that there is a continuity going on. It's ordinal. They're just sorting. You can sort this. Okay. Uh, what this implies is that for some reason, dog, dog and cat are more similar to each other and, uh, and the cat and a person are more similar to each other, but chance of confusing dog and a person is less likely to happen. Okay. We cannot, we cannot encode these multi-class in this simple numerical way. So what we do is we do the one-hot vector. It makes more sense. One-hot vector is a K-dimensional vector where K is the number of classes. So if we have three classes, dog, cat, person, we have a vector of size three. Okay. And then, um, then what do we get? What's the, the, what's the value that we should be getting? Um, like for this, 0.9, 2.6, negative 2.6. Okay. This value is going to be negative 2.6. Thus, when we compare this with this, we're getting zero as a loss. We also need to compare this also with this. Is this value larger than this value by at least one? Yes. That means the loss between these two is also going to be zero. These two, however, my value, my correct one is actually smaller than this one. That means no matter what I do, this value is going to be something greater than zero. Then we're going to have a non-zero loss for this pair. Okay. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 2.9. Just getting 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.3 minus 4.9 plus one is um, smaller than zero. And then 2.0 minus 4.9 plus one also smaller than zero. So we have zero for this case. So L2 is zero. L1 was what? 0.5 or something? No, 2.9. Just kidding. 2.9. Next one. We are expecting this to have extremely large loss because this is just way, way smaller than the all the other values. So 2.2 minus negative 3.1 plus one. This is comparing cat with the car and the cat with the, bottom one is comparing cat with the frog. So we lost, there's a loss between when you compare these two, but there's no loss when you compare these two because the frog score is so low. Okay. In the end we have 2.9 plus zero. So the loss for this example is 2.9. Just for this example. Okay. Example I. So L1 is 2.9. Okay. L2, so the car example, 1.