Okay, um. So, uh, for those of you who have uh joined the class during the add and drop period and were not able to attend the lecture last week, um, you're able to find them on Learner's, um, the recorded videos and such. So, uh, please refer to that. Um, and we did not take the attendance last week, so don't worry about that either. And we're going to start taking the attendance starting from today, actually, um.

So, last time we uh talked about some basic topics that we're going to cover in this class, and let's actually get started with the images. So what are images? Um, not just in Matlab but just anything, um, images are just basically a set of numbers uh in a form of what we call the matrices. Um, it's a linear algebra term. So, uh, giving an example and such. So let's see how the images are formed. So you have a source, um, some sort of source of light, um, and you have the object, and it's going to reflect, and our sensor is going to somehow capture the reflected light and then turn it into an image. But how does it actually work? Um, the actual... the actual object is continuous, right? They're not discretized like this. But it's kind of, um, very, very... think of this as a very, very low resolution image. So you have the continuous thing, and it needs to be transformed into some sort of a digitized set of numbers. So this is a grayscale, so think of each um box having a number, and high number means, um, high value means bright, um, bright color. And low value means, um, basically, um, dark area.

So there are two things that actually happens. First is what we call the sampling. What sampling means... this actual object needs to somehow, you know, put that into this discretized, digitized grid, and that's called the sampling. So we need to somehow turn this into these squares, okay? It's not going to look perfect, uh, it's not going to look perfect. So high resolution is going to have smaller and smaller, um, many, many more of these boxes, grids, pixels, basically. And it's able to capture the original form, continuous form, but it still is not exactly continuous, okay? That's why our images are, you know, digitized and they're turned into smaller and smaller pixels. What we see are basically consisting of all these images, even the slides that you're seeing is basically a very, very... many, many um small pixels, boxes. It's called the sampling. This needs to happen, okay? Basically we're turning to this signal, continuous signal, into some sort of a um discretized form.

The other is a quantization. Um, this quantization is a little bit different from the uh the... basically the same but um different from the the all these large model quantization that you're hearing. This is basically turning, again, these signals... so these signals, these values are actually also continuous, but we need to turn into a set of numbers. 0 to 255, okay? So in this case, each value is going to be some sort of a number between 0 and 255 that somehow needs to be decided based on the actual reflected light. Okay? So quantization actually means basically we're rounding up or rounding down to nearest integer, okay? Turn these continuous whatever values these are, they need to be somehow be chosen, okay, one of the 256 possible integer values. Okay? So sampling and quantization, they're both going to happen. All the values that we're going to be dealing with, all these images, are already sampled and quantized. So we're just going to be deal... dealing with a many, many pixels where each one has single value or three values if it's a colored image, okay?

So if it's a 1D signal, this is kind of the real... let's suppose this is the real world signal. Uh, it's very continuous and um it has decimal places, right? 5.9, 4.6. But it needs to be first sampled, okay? They need to be each turned into a um... basically like a like a box, okay? Think of this as turning these lines into these points, okay? It still needs to reflect the original signal. So the overall shape of this still needs to be as close as possible to the real original signal. And these values need to be um rounded, quantized into... in this case they're rounded up. So closest one is six, closest one is five. So all these numbers are either are all integers, okay? So two things actually happen. This is an example of a 1D signal, okay?

So the images, all these images that we're seeing, they're essentially these sort of a set of numbers, uh, what we call the matrix. Okay? Um, we're going to talk about the more the terminologies of the matrix later on, but uh we say so we take the... basically it's a it's an array but 2D array. You guys all know what the array is. Basically think of this as a 2D array. That means you have two indices um that we need to locate each entry, okay? So I's are typically used to uh... so this value I is typically used to um index the rows. So it's I um... it's we're starting from let's say one. That means row one, row two, I equals three, I equals four. And then these are what we call the columns. So first column, second column, third column. So if you're a... if you're interested in somehow locating this 191 value, that means this is the fourth row and fifth column. Typically um we indicate these values with I and J. So I is going to be four... be four and J is going to be five, okay?

So this is an example of a uh grayscale image. So black and white. It doesn't have colors. But to have colors, actually happens is all the lights are going to have some sort of um... they're going to have some colors. And we only let certain ones go through. So this is a very, very um classical um filter. So we only uh... so each one actually if you look at these values, they have um... they just basically capture the brightness. These are actually going to take the capture the brightness of the call... specific color. So all these red areas are going to be specifically only going to let the red colors go through and then take the intensity. Green ones are going to... these spots are going to let the green colors go through. And then the blue spots are going to let the blue uh colors go through. And each one is going to only show red, green, and blue with specific intensities, okay? So if you look at this from very, very far away, then you're not going to be able to see these individual colors, but you're going to see some sort of a combination like this, okay?

So what actually happens is this basically says output of a 120 by 80. So that means there are 120... the width is 120 and then the height is 80. So there are 120 pixels this ways and then there are 80 pixels this way, okay? Um, basically these are not actually reflecting the colors, but if we actually start seeing them in terms of colors... so this is what you're seeing. So these red areas, okay, only the red ones are bright. All the other ones are um dark. That means it's not uh... it's not letting the... there is not much blue and then green colors. The rest of the areas, there is a, you know, decent amount of green colors, but mostly around the grass. And these blue flowers, okay, they're mostly only blue ones are going to uh appear. And these areas, what they look like... so it's this is a purple. That means it's a combination of blue and red. So you're seeing blues and reds, okay? So this is a very extreme example. Very, very extreme example because we're actually able to identify each pixel, okay, at the pixel level. But imagine this being a um very, very low resolution just example. If you somehow reconstruct the image after after interpolation... so interpolation means you're basically filling in uh... basically making this smooth and then these all these um in between areas, you're basically considering the nearby colors and then somehow just consider all of them. So interpolation, we're going to talk about them um eventually. So this is a reconstructed image. We're turning this, make it smoother, and then we do interpolation and kind of looks like the pictures that we're seeing, okay? So all these red and blue areas, if you kind of combine the colors together, then it turns into a reasonable purple, okay? And this is the actual color film um turned into uh without being extreme like this. So yeah, these are just two examples.

So each color image, we're mostly going to be dealing with color images. Um, it basically has three matrices. One for red, one for green, and one for for blue. So this uh color image is a combination of red image, green image, and blue image. So each area, each pixel is going to have some R, G, and B value. And some combination... there's a color map. So you have three numbers and then there is a specific um kind of a universal color map. Get all these three numbers and it's going to show a specific color, okay? So just images in in general, these are what you're going to be seeing. So if you have an actual image, you show the image, and then um if you load it up, we can actually look at the actual um RGB values, three matrices. So you have the first one is going to be R value, second one is going to be G, third one is going to be blue... um B for blue, okay? Let's show all of them.

I'm going to talk about some terminologies. Um, so color images represented as a matrix with multiple channels. Um, if it's there's only single matrix, that means it's a grayscale. It's just black and white image. Suppose you have an N by M... so this means um this showing the dimension of this. So N is the number of rows, number of, you know, rows. And then M is the number of columns. So uh we're... if we... so in this example, um how many rows do we have? Approximately six... uh 11. So what we're seeing here is a 11 by... how many columns we're seeing? 11 by 11. So 11 by 11 um pixel... uh 11 by 11 sized matrix, okay? So going to load... we can load it up as a val... variable IM, you know, short for image, okay? And we can locate each entry of this matrix, this image. So I want to look at the top left pixel value in the R channel. So one indicating the row one. The second one indicates the column one. And the third one indicates the first channel, okay? So it's going to return 0.92. So all these values are between um 0 and 1. So um and what I said before is that these numbers need to be integers. Um, so there are different ways to deal with the numbers. The original images are actually in terms of um unsigned integer of eight. So eight bit is all we need, right? Two to the eight. How many numbers there are? 256, okay? 256 integers. So it's an unsigned integer of eight bit, consisting of eight bit. So it's you're only able to have values between 0 and 255 and that is all you need. So this is the minimal, okay, type of these values that you can have. So typically the images are in unsigned integer of eight bit. But when you load them up, um they often turn into... you want to turn them into maybe some smaller numbers, just scaling it down, okay? So if you divide everything by 255, you're going to get these numbers. It's going to just basically turn them into 0 to 255 ranges into just 0 to 1, okay? Nothing... the values have not actually changed. It's just easier... sometimes easier for us to deal with the numbers, manipulate the numbers if they are scaled down like this, okay? And many methods, uh functions need to have the values in doubles, okay? So these are all... so you can turn it into um type of double, okay? So that's why these values are not uh... they have decimal places and are very, very small. Anyways.

So it's sometimes very confusing. This is not just a Matlab stuff but just image in general. Um, we're used to have this Euclidean coordinate system where X comes first and Y comes second and you start from the left and as the X increases, you go to the right and as the Y increases, you go to uh you go um to the top. It's the opposite, okay? So row is the vertical going down. So row one starts from the left... upper left corner. Column one starts from the upper left corner like this, okay? So it goes this way. It grows this way. It's completely opposite. Also, um typical, you know, XYZ coordinate system, we we say X first and then Y first and Z first. In the row column, okay, we talk about the row first. So Y... so if you think of this as some sort of a coordinate system, then Y needs to come first. That's the row. That's the vertical movement. X is the horizontal movement. So sometimes you're going to be thinking of of this as some sort of XY coordinate. I'll sometimes talk about it that way as well. But, okay, when you actually talk about the matrix, there is an order. Order is very important, okay? First dimension is row, second dimension is the column, third dimension is something else. You can maybe have fourth dimension, fifth dimension. But each one indicates the dimension. The order matters, okay? So uh it's much more typical to talk about these I, J, K, row, column, channel in this way. Row, column, channel, okay? In matrix... just a matrix uh convention, okay? But if you're really interested... uh if you really want to just keep on using the Y's and um X's, you need to talk about the Y's first. It's a very common mistake you'll be seeing in homework assignments. Um, we say, oh, it's... you put X and Y like this. Then what happens is whatever you're doing is basically happening on the other side. If you draw a line, then you're... you think you're, you know, here, but you're actually here. You think you're putting a dot here, but you're actually putting the dot here because you put X first and Y fir... Y second, okay? So Y, X, I, J, they go together. Okay.

Uh, when you put the M... N means what is it? It's the predefined size of the matrix. So in this case, what I what I said is that N is 11. You can actually, given the image, you can um check the size of the uh the corresponding image. Basically the size of the corresponding matrix. So N is 11, M is also 11. So if you just put the variables N, comma M, comma 3, that means you're looking at the very last row, very last column. So and then you look at the very last channel. So you're going to be retrieving this value. Last row, last column, last channel. Okay? Um, oh yeah, it's said here. You can read the file and then it's going to be originally integer um between 0 and 255. Um, you can turn it into double. Sometimes it's very very needed, okay? Because if you just keep on using the unsigned integers like this, um some functions are going to try to just keep it in terms of unsigned integer. So even if you sometimes divide by values that should be giving you decimal places, you're not going to be getting them, okay? So when there are um more complex computations you're going to be doing, typically turn them into doubles and then start working on it.

I have a quick demo. Um, see if it works. Um. So. I'm gonna... see if I can zoom in. Oh. Oh. Okay, cool. So it's the image of Pittsburgh, um, where I used to be. And if I zoom... how do I zoom out? Let me go back a few times. Okay, whatever. Um. You're still not able to see each pixel. You kind of start seeing these pixel-like, grid-like, you know, shapes, especially um when there are some round corners and diagonal edges, okay? Let me zoom in a little bit more, okay? Um, let's zoom in. Okay. Now you're seeing pixels. They're coming clear, more clear. Let me zoom in a little more. Um. Okay. Obviously there are boxes, pixels, colors. Gonna zoom in even more. And then you're actually going to start seeing values. Um, maybe closer. Um. You see values? No? Oh. They're supposed to somehow... um not able to show you the actual values. It should be showing numbers here. You're not seeing them because I'm somehow not able to show them. Um. Not able to see. Give me one second. Actually the slide that you're seeing, this is what I was trying to show, okay? If you zoom in more and more, eventually you're going to see the actual... as images are... they don't actually have the images. I'm just using some sort of a tool that gives you a very good intuition of how you are able to see what you're seeing here. So each pixel basically have these values. Um, what you can expect is these are from top to bottom, they're RGB values. So if you see let's say some green areas, if you zoom into that, you're going to see low red values and then um high green values and low blue values, okay? Everything here is basically a very, very tiny set of pixels, but there are many of them, and you just... each one just has a number like this, set of numbers, okay? So some... so our job is to somehow interpret these values and then try to make sense out of it, okay? So the vision is... it looks surprisingly simple these days, but what you're actually doing is extremely complicated. You're just trying to make sense out of eventually, you know, just set of nonsensical combination of these numbers, okay? Somehow you need to identify that oh, this is a building. But what you're actually seeing is just set of random numbers like this, okay? Somehow you're able to track moving object and be able to identify that oh, these set of similar set of, you know, objects are set of numbers are moving and somehow need to be able to track them. So what we're about to do, uh we're going to start from very, very low level traditional vision techniques and somehow build up and then eventually um reach modern techniques that we're seeing, okay?

Before we move on to the vectors and matrices, let's try to take the attendance for the first time. Okay, you have um basically have five minutes to put this number. Just have it up here. Um, I'll talk about the rest. Um. So vectors and matri... and matrices. Um, I've only been talking about matrices. They're just uh set of numbers. And vectors are also just a collection of ordered numbers, okay? They represent something. It can represent anything. We sometimes need to describe things in terms of just not just a single number or two or three, but just a set of numbers, okay? Images are just set of numbers like this. So we're going to be using the word vector a lot and matrices a lot, okay? They have different... can be used for many different things. Matrices are can also be used for many different things. So vector is... it's a... it's very, very basic linear algebra stuff. So even if you have no idea about these, um gonna know just enough to be able to understand the rest of the lecture. So a vector can... is going to be represented like this. It's just a collection of numbers. They need to be ordered in a specific way, okay? Meaning you can um... if you uh like the matrices that you're seeing, okay, you cannot just shuffle them. If you shuffle these numbers, then it's a completely different vector, okay? A column vector looks like a column. It's a vertically um tall uh set of numbers, okay? The shape matters. We're going to talk about the shape soon, okay? Um, what this is telling you is a set of real numbers, okay? So all these numbers are just real... we're only going to be mostly going to be dealing with real numbers, okay? So it's a set of real numbers and they're shaped in a way that is N... small N is the size of the vector by one, okay? So this is specified to be one. That means it has N rows and it only has a single column. So you can think of this as a one dimensional matrix, but sometimes if it's a vector, we don't even try to... we don't even put this. We just assume that it's sort of a um set of numbers. It can be vertical or it can be horizontal like this. It can be a row vector or a vert... uh or um a column vector. Sometimes doesn't matter. Um, but it's more um... it's more strict to write it this way. So if it looks like this, N by one, that means a column vector has N rows and single column. If it's a row vector, it's a one by N. So one row, N columns. Now this T is a uh transpose operator, okay? So row vectors not... they don't all have this this T, okay? It can be... you can just say W and it's a row vector, okay? What I'm showing you is T is a transpose operator. So I'm going to talk about this. Eventually what happens, there are multiple ways to think about this. One, you're just basically tilting it. Um, you tilt it this way. So V transpose is going to look like this. Suppose this is not T... V transpose, suppose it's W. So if you do W transpose, then it's going to turn into this shape, okay? You're basically tilting it this way or this way, okay? Um, another way to think about that is you put some sort of a mirror diagonally, exactly diagonal, and then you're basically um reflecting it onto the other side. So this is... this becomes V1, okay? Um, V1, V2, all the way down to VN, okay? Um, there also... it's also um different way to think about it is basically swapping the indices. So imagine this is a some sort of a uh just 2D matrix, but we just let's just call it a vector because it's one dimensional. Still, we can say V1 is in... uh is located at row one and what? Column one. This is row two, column one. This is row three, column one. This is row N, okay, column one, right? Transpose operator in a two dimensional sense, you can also think of this as simply swapping the indices. So rows become the columns and columns becomes the rows, okay? So what used to be at 1,1 is now going to be at 1,1. That doesn't change. What used to be at 1... 2,1 is going to now going to be at 1,2. What used to be at 3,1 is now at 1,3. What used to be at um N,1 is now at 1, comma... 1,N, okay? So transpose operator, you can think of this as also just swapping the indices. You may think of this as just physically somehow shaping, reshaping this set of numbers or you're just changing the way that you're accessing them. Then immediately has a different way to um has a different shape. So transpose operation, this also works for matrices. So there is a matrix, suppose it's a big very big matrix V. You can also transpose it. Then what happens is exactly the same operation. You're just changing the I's and J's, okay? Before used to be I and J, now all the I's are going to going to be the columns and all the J's are going to be the rows. So you basically say um suppose there's an image that looks like this and it's a alphabet A. If you transpose, then it's going to look like this, okay? You're basically reflecting it, okay? Reflecting it this way. So all these values are going to go the other side and such. Going to look at this transpose operation more and more, okay?

So um want to keep track of the orientation of the vectors. Um, it's going to be very important because when we start doing linear algebra operations, matrices, sizes, all the shapes become um essential. Um, in... so how do you actually uh make it happen? How do you actually transpose things? Just put the um single quote, okay? So they have in... in terms of what we're doing, vectors are going to have, you know, um going to have many uses, but there's going to talk about just two main um use cases. One, you can think of this as a way to offset some point in that direction. So this is a typical Cartesian coordinates, you know, X, Y, whatever, okay? Uh, if you have some X and Y, then we're used to uh this Cartesian coordinate system, okay? X, Y means it's immediately, you know, giving us some sort of a sense of where this is going to be at, okay? It's a point, let's say, okay? So if it's at let's say um five and three, that means you offset by five and then you offset by three, okay? But you can also think of this as, yeah, sure, it's a point, but you're... can also think of this as um the amount of offset from the origin, okay? Can happen in 2D, can happen in 3D. If it's X, Y, and Z, okay, if it's X, Y, and Z, then you can... you're able to also somehow imagine that this point in the 3D X, Y, Z coordinate system, okay? So points are just vectors from the origin. Um, what's more important is this this line, okay? This point location itself is important sometimes, okay? This length of this arrow, length of this vector. So vectors can be drawn like this, okay? Can be drawn in many different ways. In a 2D, it's just a 2D arrow, okay, starting from the origin, okay?

Um, let's see. Data can also be treated as a vector. So what I mean by data? Any sort of a numerical information. I said we are going to be you... dealing with information, numbers, okay? All these abstract things and whatever you're thinking, um uh ideas, knowledge, eventually need to turn them into meaningful numbers. That's where we start doing these um cool operations, right? So vectors is the most basic way to store a set of numbers, okay? If you have some specific, let's say it is a 128 dimensional vector, you have a bunch of numbers. And maybe it represents a person. You have some different combination of numbers, again 128 numbers, somehow it somehow has the information about a dog, okay? So we're going to... these are eventually going to be... we're going to call them features. Basically just feature representation. Basically some sort of a numerical representation, okay? And the basically uh modern AI um or advanced AIs, um and even the ones that we're going to talk about eventually, is how... is about how uh to construct this set of numbers in a meaningful way. If these numbers are good, okay, um that means it has very good, you know, high quality information that can be used in um many different models and such. So such vec... uh vectors don't have a geometric interpretation, but we can use them as information, compute the idea of distance, okay? Why do we talk about the distance? Um, you have a set of numbers. Let's say if you have a vector that represents a person and a dog, okay? Somehow I want to say these two features, these two information, okay, numbers are very uh are uh different. So person and a dog are very different, right? Somehow I want to numerically compute that. If two things are different, then somehow I want to have a number that's that that actually represents, that reflects such relationship. If we have let's say a different um kind of a dog, okay, some let's say dog two, these two are... should be very similar. These numbers, you know, should be not exactly the same, but somewhat similar. I want to be able to numerically measure the similarity, okay? So many of the things that we're going to be doing is measuring the similarity or dissimilarity between the information, numbers, and objects and such. And distance is one of the ways to think about that, okay? So the feature representation, vectors, uh a vector is representing a measurable characteristics of data sample that we have. Um, this is not the sampling sampling. Um, we sometimes just each instance or object or each thing, we sometimes say it's a sample, okay? So we say um the sample size of a data set basically means how many um images that you have, okay?

So suppose um we have a glass of juice that can be represented via its color or taste. Color is also... color somehow, you know, you can numerically represent it, right? Because they're RGB things. Um, taste is very abstract. How do you actually, you know, turn taste into a number, okay? Room to have... room to set up rules. So if it's a yellow color, then the color um color feature is going to be one. If it's a red color, color feature is going to be two. If it's green, three, purple, four, okay? We just predefine this rule, okay? It's up to you to decide how you're going to measure what you're seeing, the information, the visual information. Taste, okay? You're going to say, oh, if it's a sweet um juice, then going to just put one for the taste. So taste value is going to be one. If it's a sour juice, then it the taste value is going to be two. So okay. So we have set this some sort of a feature or a rule that allow you to numerically measure the um the type of juice that you are actually going to um that's given. So a given um... a given glass X I... so this is... you can think of this... it's a vector, okay? And I means it's an Ith instance, okay? So it means basically implicates that there's going to be many, many X's, okay? Many examples, many glasses. Um, so given a glass uh glass of juice X I, it can be represented as a vector like this. So three and two. You know the rule. So given this number, now you're able to actually understand the information, this information. You're able to actually characterize the type of information that was originally given to you as a set of numbers, right? So three, color is three, that means it's a green. And the taste is two. You know that it doesn't actually say, you know, taste equals two. You have set of rules. I said the order is... order matters, right? So first one is color, second one is taste. So 3, 2 means green and sour juice, okay? If you have one and one, that means a yellow and sweet juice, okay? So we call this a feature, okay? And if we have D number of features, then we can call this a D-dimensional feature, okay, defined in a D-dimensional space. So this... there are only two features, okay? Taste... color and taste. So it's a two-dimensional feature, okay, 2D feature. And um and let's see. Uh, in a two-dimensional space. So this is just a point in a two-dimensional space. I said um you know, the example that I showed you before, um I said that you can... there can have maybe 128 numbers, okay? That means there are literally 128 values, okay? But those values, it does not actually have specific rules like this. This is a very simple example. That's why um each number actually has a physical meaning. First one is color, second one is taste. Third one can be something else. It's up to you. You're basically doing some sort of a feature engineering, okay? You're the one who decides the rule of the features. So you can kind of um collect them and then construct them. Eventually you're just going to have set of numbers that is kind of meaningless to you. You're not able to actually interpret it just by looking at it. First one does not actually have a mean... uh specific meaning. Second one does not have a physical meaning. Third one does not. Okay? It's just a some set of a collection of numbers that is going to be used for some other functions that only makes sense to that function, okay? So eventually this idea of feature... this is a simple example where each one has a physical representation. Now we're going to eventually we're going to move on to just even larger, okay, in a much larger dimensional space where the numbers are not intuitively interpretable.

So mathematically we're going to use this to somehow measure the similarity between the samples. So since we're able to numerically represent and characterize information, we can use that information to describe relationships between what cannot be what used uh what were not able to measure this. So how do you actually basically say two things are more similar than the other ones? Okay? With using feature representation, we can do that. So we have three examples, okay? Um, X1 has feature 1 and 2. X2 has 3, 2. X3 has 1, 1, okay? Um, now they're basically points in this two-dimensional space where X axis is the color and Y axis is the taste. Just by just put... oh, you know, putting on to uh putting it on a uh coordinate system like this, okay, it gives us the intuition that the similarity has to do with the similarity of the numbers, how similar these set of numbers are, okay? That means if the two things are similar, that means they're actually closer to each other in this two-dimensional space, right? That's what the vectors are. So this is a one... 1,1 vector. This is a 1,2 vector and this is a 3,2 vector, okay? How do you know two things are similar? If they're close to each other. How do you know actually two things are similar to each other? You measure the distance, okay? You know how to measure the distance, right? There are different ways to measure the distance. The typical um distance is Euclidean distance, okay? When you say, you know, it's from like, you know, um elementary school or high school, whatever, um if you want to measure distance, there is a formula to measure distance, okay? That is actually the L2 distance, okay? What you're um used to be looking at. You're basically drawing a straight line between them, okay? This is the more intuitive way, most common way. But there... gonna realize that there are many different ways distance is um not just a physical straight line, okay? There are many different ways to measure the distance because distance is basically just a similarity of the numbers. Small distance means two numbers, two vectors are more similar to each other, okay? If the distance is large, that means the val... values, the combination of them are larger. That means um the differences are larger, so they're farther away from each other. So L1 distance is much simpler. L1 is you're not going to actually... you're not able to go diagonally. You're only able to go um horizontally or vertically. So the distance between 3 and 2, okay, X2 and X3 is 2 plus 1, okay? This is the L1 distance. You're only able to... so take the horizontal or vertical paths and then just count them, okay? Measure the distance. So Euclidean distance, you all know what this is. It becomes um... gonna see this a lot. Gonna see this a lot. There are different ways to talk about this. Euclidean distance, L2 distance. Um, we're gonna also talk about the norm, idea of a norm. How... what is the norm? So there... there's a different way to think about this distance. So the original Euclidean dis... distance formula, do the subtraction, squaring, square root, sure. You're you're literally just computing the difference between them. Different way to look at it is identify that you can draw a line. So there's you can... there can be a vector from X3 to X2, okay? How do you get that? X2 minus X3. You're basically subtracting two vectors. You get another vector. Let's say I'm going to say D, okay? That D, okay, is this vector, okay? This vector has a length, okay? Computing the length is also identical to the computing the distance that constructed that vector, okay? So this... this form, you have two things, two points, two vectors, use a subtraction and compute the the the distance, physical distance in a way. Another way to look at it is say let's say um I have drawn a vector P which is between these two points like this by subtracting it. And then what I'm going to do is... so basically saying that oh, this is P, okay? So you go here. And then what I'm going to do is each el... um element of that vector, square, and then sum them up, and then square root, okay? So root of the um sum of the squares, okay? That is basically identical to measuring that this. So let's say P is let's say um X2 minus X1. Computing this L... Euclidean norm this way or computing the Euclidean distance using these two. So you can basically put this as D X2 and then X1, okay? And then just following this formula is identical. We don't... uh sure, we're going to look at this look at it this way as well, but you're going to start seeing the idea of norm a lot. It's basically a length of... a way to measure the length of a vector. That means there are different ways to measure the length of vectors. L2 norm is what you're familiar with. If you have a vector this way, then you're going to literally just, you know, identify the length. L... L1 norm, then you have... if you have a vector, then you need to go this way to and measure this length, okay? How do you do that? Um, writing the norm uh for each vector is you put the two bars. So double bars on both sides. That indicates you're about to com... compute the norm, the length of the whatever vector that's inside, okay? If you have a number next to it, it indicates the the type of norm that you're dealing with. If it's one, that means implies it's an L1 norm. That means each element of this vector, okay, so X I is the Ith element of this vector X, you're going to take the absolute values and sum them up. That is identical to basically going only sideways and then measuring that distance, okay? L2 norm, it's not... it's very so common that people don't even write the twos, but if you want to be um strict about this, writing the two is um suggested. So L2 norm is just the Euclidean norm that you're seeing. There could be L3 norms, L4 norms, and you're basically seeing this pattern, right? Can have a general form of this for any real numbers, okay? Um, P greater than equal to 1. Can have a P norm, LP norm. Formula is the following, okay? Take the absolute values and then take the P power of that, sum them up, and then take the 1 over P power, okay? So if it's an L2 norm, what you have to do is just put the two here, okay? If you put the two here, you put the two here, and then it's identical this to this, right? If you put the one, it's an L1 norm, right? That is identic... turns into this. So these norms are not just um uh they're basically a more specific form of this LP norm function, okay? Very important idea um of linear algebra and any AIs that you're going to be looking at, okay? So um this is just not a tool for us to take this class, but you're going to be seeing the idea of norm and how they're going to be used in many, many different AI courses, okay? Very important mathematical concept. Um.

Matrix. So finally it's the same matrix that we're seeing, okay? Typically the matrices... so these you're you're going... you're seeing many, many um these variables, right? Sometimes I write, you know, small A, sometimes I write, you know, I write small B, sometimes big B. There are some conventions that people use, okay? So basic convention means let's just try to be consistent with the way that we're using. It's like an implicit rule of using these variables, okay? So matrices are typically written with um capital letters, okay? Vectors are typically written with lower cases, okay? So matrix A, vector A, okay? It's um then oh well, you're actually seeing these small A's here too, right? So um there is a also some even more um hierarchical basically convention. If... I'm not going to exactly follow it all the time, but um if it's a non-italicized... so you can have italicized A like this, like this, okay? Just normal A, not bold-faced. This is a bold-faced, let's say, non-italicized, just straightforward A. That's a typical um way to set write the matrix. You can also have a non-italicized but bold-faced A, just lowercase. That means it's a vector. If it's not bold-faced, then it's usually a typically a scalar, okay? So if you just see... um again, we're not going to be seeing this convention being followed in this class for most times, but um outside of uh this class and research papers, it's not being used a lot these days, but again, I want to uh just introduce the the convention. Small let us... lowercase, non-bold, just normal characters um are typically just scalars. Scalar means just a single value, okay? If it's a bold-faced A, let's suppose it's a bold-faced A, okay? Then typically it's a some sort of a some sort of a vector, okay? If it's a capital letter, okay, um uppercase A, again bold-faced, then it's usually a vector. Sometimes you see a um uppercase but non-bold-faced, that is also sometimes used as just scalars, okay? Indicating let's say the size of this matrix. So just conventions that you have to follow. So again, this is a matrix M by N. Never call this times, okay? You're not multiplying anything. M by N matrix. So you're expecting M rows and N columns, okay? How do you actually uh indicate each entry? Like this. This is a typical way. You basically put two numbers, rows and col... row index and column index. Row index, column index. Lowercase, okay? Another way to write this is you can say, oh, um an index at J. This is another way to write it. Sometimes you see something like this, okay? To immediately just use this as like an index, you put the put it as a subscript. Um, sometimes you use let's see I comma J, but you never actually see numbers uh... it's just a convention, right? So what do we do if it has... it's at row 11 and column 11? Do you write 11, 11? Typically we don't write um... we don't use this excessively, okay? We just typically we just write it as, oh, there are many entries, there are many elements. I'm going to just use I and J, okay? So if M is equal to N, that means there exactly is um M... so there the number of rows and number of the columns. It looks like a square, right? But it's a... the dimension is the same in both dimensions, okay? We say it's a square matrix. It is really the term that we use. Um, can make it have some special characteristics. We'll talk about eventually. Uh. Hmm. It's going to be the last slide.

Matrix operations. Uh, this is why I said the dimensions are important. We cannot add two matrices of different sizes because we need to do element-wise operations. That means the addition, whatever you're doing needs to be happen um corresponding uh to the same element in the at the corresponding uh index. So um as you can tell, if you want to add add these two matrices, you need to add the whatever is at I, J with the whatever is at the I, J of the other matrix, okay? So you add these two, 1,1, 1,1, 2, 1,2 with the 1,2, 2, 2,1 with the uh 2,1 and such, okay? That means if you have let's say some different matrix like this. This is a 2 by 2 matrix. This is a 2 by 3 matrix. They cannot be added, right? For this reason, okay? That's why sometimes you're trying to add two matrices together and says dimension mismatch. That means that literally means dimensions are mismatching, so you're not allowed to ma... um make that operation, okay? Going to be seeing this... we're going to be seeing such dimension mismatch issues a lot. Um, and there is one kind of like an exception. If you just... you can take... uh if there's a single number that you want to add, it can be applied to every single matrix. So matrix plus a constant or a scalar is okay. Just adding that constant scalar value to every single element, okay? So you can do A plus let's say one. That is okay. But you cannot do A plus B where the dimensions are mismatched, okay? Same goes with the multiplication. This is a scaling operation, okay? We're not actually multiplying two matrices together. We're going to talk about that in next class. This is just scaling. That means you're just multiplying that same scalar value to every single element in this matrix, okay? Um, so I'm going to end the lecture here and going to see you on Thursday.